Chapter 7 – Saints

·

The

reason one needs to be connected to a saint is that even with all the

preparation of virtue and study unless God shines his light on one then he

simply isn't connected with God [even though God is still connected with him by

the contracting light. And without that light one's spiritual life is simply

self-delusion. There is no such thing as spirituality except for that light.

[However, there are different levels of it so on the level of royalty or the

contraction God is still looking at one and he still must be careful in what he

says thinks and does. At any rate, because of this one must be connected with a

saint that is connected to the light. This is in fact one of the 613

commandments as it says in the Torah to be attached to God and the Sages ask

how is it possible to be attached to God? Isn't he a burning Fire? And they

answer to be attached to students of the wise men, i.e., do business with them

and to give to one of them your daughter.

However,

it is hard to know who is a saint. Rabbi Yaakov Abuchatzara gave the criteria

[in Maaglai Tzedek]. If you see two people serving God; one can do miracles and

the other can't, know that the one who can, is a greater saint that the other.

We see this in the Bible, for Eliyahu said to the head of the troop “If I am a

man of God let fire come down from Heaven...” Thus, we see that the proof of

his being a man of God was his ability to do a miracle. HE could have done the

miracle without saying “If I am a man of God”, but he added those words to

teach us this lesson. Also, the Bible teaches us how to discover if someone is

a true or false prophet. If they say any good thing will come to pass, and it

doesn't, or if he says to serve false gods or to stop keeping the commandments

then he is a false prophet.

This may

seem to contradict what I have said elsewhere about the importance of listening

to one's family and friends, not to rabbis. However, the answer to this is as

follows.

At any

there is a level of saint that applies to each individual in a spiritual way,

that is his parents and friends for though they may not be saints in terms of

the rest of the world they are in general   the level of “saint” in relation to

each individual. The test is if they have actually helped the individual in

some tangible physical way. If not, then they are just a lot of hot air. For

what they do for is on the level of a miracle, and by their love for you they

can have “Small Prophecy” to know the outcome of a course of action. This is

like what the Sages say that in naming ones child one has small prophecy.

Honor of

ones parents is in the Ten Commandments and honoring a rabbi is not even

mentioned in the Bible. Thus, even though the Sages tell us the importance of

honoring a true saint or sage this prescription has to be taken with a grain of

salt and in such a way that wouldn't contradict the open command of the Torah.

·

A good

way of really telling who is a saint is the test of time. For instance, the

writings of Moses are doing pretty good still after 3000 years. So are the

books of other saints. Modern-day so-called rabbis will be lucky if they are

remembered 20 years after they have passed except as some foot note in a

history book.

·

It's

impossible to know the answer to the criticism on any saint because of the

uncertainty principle -- the better you know the answer the less you are aware

of his being a saint. And the greater the saint is the less we can know the

answers to the questions on him.

·

The thing

that made Rabbi Israel Abuchatzera and all the great saints, wasn't so much

their prayer, fasting or learning, rather it was their tremendous desire to

help people. When that desire exists in one, God gives him the ability to help

people far beyond the rules of nature. The tools to help people are simple acts

of kindness, but for people like Rabbi Israel Abuchatzara it was possible to go

into the spiritual roots of the problem in the higher worlds and correct the

problem's there, and that would trickle down to this world where the problem would

disappear.

Yet even

a regular person can do that to some degree by prayer:

●

By going to the shrine of Rabbi Nachman for Rosh Hashanah; by

learning Kabbalah and science; by doing the unifications of Rabbi Luria

Ashkenazi

●

By prayer with the intentions of the Rashash

●

By doing the nullifying of judgments by the shrines of the saints

in Israel

●

By reading the whole Torah every verse forward and backwards and

then saying the Divine Names that come with the verse. (The simplest way is

saying the first letter of every word with the vowel under it as it is written

in the Torah, then the middle letters with the vowel which is specifically for

that letter, and then the last letter in the same way. (This method is good to

use with the

Lekutei Moharan

which also has the strength to nullify

judgments.

●

The most important thing to do is to bring loved ones together.

For in the next world loved ones are together. However, in this world usually

true mates are separated by time and place and even if they come together its

only for a brief time.

·

When one

denies a righteous person completely, he cuts off the flow of spiritual energy

which might have reached him. So those who may not know Jesus but don't deny

him may still receive the flow of the light of kindness from him.

·

When a

Tzadik is born there is born his evil side in another person. That's why he has

to pray for that person because it's really a part of himself, just he was

lucky that it was born elsewhere.

·

The way

God runs things changes so what one saint does to get some spiritual level will

not work nowadays unless that same spiritual flow is upon him. But private

prayer still works since it's the light of the crown which is the type of

Divine flow coming into the world. Learning Kabbalah is just on the level of

wisdom, so it doesn't work like it used to.

·

To reveal

the Divine traits, one needs an empty space. America, the land of freedom, is

between the East and West. And that's why America has grown, since it’s a land

of freedom and good deeds can only grow in a free environment. Chaos has its

own beautiful patterns and since in America there is some degree of freedom of

thought, ideas are able to flow around and sometimes to converge into a great

vortex, like the great red spot that is on Jupiter.

·

The

disagreement between the Talmud and Jesus is on the level of the argument

between the righteous. Jesus or the Talmud can't bring blessing unless they are

hidden by the argument on them.

·

Most

great saints don't have the right ideas -- just great hearts. Most great

geniuses don't have great hearts, just great heads. They have a common thread

and share many of the same characteristics but if we are to live according to

God's will, we can't listen to necessarily any one saint or any one genius if

we are to find a correct path in which God is accessible to common people. It

is necessary to listen to the wise and the saints of all ages especially those

that have withstood the test of time and to try to gain an idea of how their

teachings apply to us today (e.g., I don't think Mother Teresa necessarily had

a great head, but rather a great heart. She was a devout Catholic. Should we

all then become Catholics? I don't think so, and I don't think we'll all be

dammed if we don't, though that belief is part of the Catholic faith).

·

The

Rambam writes that making anything a mediator between you and God is idolatry

(just the same as serving anything besides God. So, apparently there should be

a problem doing any

mitzvah

which is supposed to bring you close to God

and bring blessing from God.

Now, the

idea that a mediator is against the Torah isn't accepted by all authorities.

So, to them there is no problem with the Gemarah saying that when you have

someone sick at home you should go to the Torah scholar to pray for you; nor

with the Gemarah about the saint who was having trouble with his neighbors and

went to the grave of his father asking for help; nor with the Gemarah saying

that if people would be able to go to the grave of Moses to pray, the

redemption would come right away.

But if we

go with the Rambam we would have to say that

mitzvot

and

tzadikim

are

included in the 10

sephirot

of Emanation and thus are considered one

with God. I would say the Rambam avoided all this by saying “making a creation

a mediator”. Also, when you do the mitzvot, those are the things God said to do

to come close to Him and receive his blessing, so they are serving God, and in

a way the mediators that God has specified for his service. This would include

being “attached and united” to a Tzadik which is one of the 613 commandments.

·

The

difference between the Rambam and the other authorities is that if one holds

that a Tzadik is a sephirah of Emanation then to the Rambam it would be

forbidden to ask him to pray for you, but if you hold like the other

authorities, it would be permitted.

·

The idea

of combining the paths of the righteous is from Zushia the brother of the Rabbi

Elimelech of Lezinsk. He, however only used the idea for the chasidishe

saints... I have gone out on a limb to take it further to combine all saints.

If this is correct it is a tremendous truth. If not, I will be dammed forever

by the view point of any religion. [Reb Zushia got it from the verse, “for God

knows the path of the saints”, “knows” has a double meaning, of putting

together. So, Reb Zushia derived the idea that God puts together the diverging

paths of the saints. This was in relation to the Chasidishe saints who all had

completely different paths. One was into prayer, another into good deeds,

another into learning and so on.

·

Jesus

contains the vessels of Tohu [chaos] and thus majors in physical healing, and

in bringing people to the Garden of Eden in the next world; which is also so to

speak relevant to the vessels of the light, which are people's souls, and the

actual surroundings of those souls in the next world. Rabbi Nachman has to do

with more with the drawing of the infinite light of the crown, or of wisdom its

vessel. He has very little to do with healing anybody or miracles in general.

·

We are

indebted to the Hindu thinkers [Shankara and Ramanuja] for the emphasis and

clarity of their belief that the God is the only reality. This belief

eventually got into Judaism, where it was all the time (but submerged), until

the Baal Shem Tov brought it to the surface and the Litvaks were forced to

concede to its truth - however reluctantly that may have been. Yet the

pessimism of Hindu and Buddhist teachings (i.e., their idea that human deeds

are fruitless and have no essential value) stifled their civilization for 2000

years while the Jewish belief in the power of the mind [the father] and the

Christian belief in the power of good deeds [the mother church] shaped and

brought forth western civilization. Here we have another example of the

importance of Reb Zushia's idea of combining the paths of all the saints

·

How to

Tell if Someone is a Saint

Rabbi

Yakov Abuchatzeira writes in Maaglei Zedek, that if you see two people serving

God, but one if full of miracles and the other is not, you should know the

reason is because the one with the miracles is a greater saint than the other

even though you don't know why. As Eliyahu the Prophet said, “if I am a man of

God let fire come down from heaven.” He made the test of his righteousness

dependent on a miracle. This test would leave all present-day rabbis out in the

cold.

·

The

reason some psychic people or even saints lack certain knowledge is that part

of their soul is missing. Some saint/psychics can advise on everything until it

comes to a monetary issue, where their love for it blinds them. Also, in a more

general way this explains why only one Jewish saint saw the truth about Jesus

even though there were many other saints before and after him. This also

explains how Rabbi Akiva could decide that Bar Kochba was the Messiah - the

Messiah frequency was missing in his radio.

·

It was

revealed to the Baal Shem Tov that he came to his high level not so much from

the learning of the Talmud as from the Mikvah. The Noam Elimelech said: Moses

came to his level by doing unifications every day immediately (in the morning)

when he woke up. [The Ari said Moses and Binyahu ben Yehodaya both did that

type of service.] Rabbi Nachman said the main thing is “hisbodedut”, private

conversation with God.

These are

three types of Divine service that three saints said could bring a person to a

high spiritual level. I wonder if these maybe are the “three types of service”

that the Messiah revealed to the Baal Shem Tov that if any person would do them

along with three specific unifications, they would be able to “make

unifications and rise to the higher worlds like you.”

The Baal

Shem Tov had to swear not to reveal them, but it would make sense to say that

he himself did them. Though he did many types of service we know the

mikvah

was a major factor. For other things he did, we would only be guessing if they

help. Anyone could suggest a bunch of things that happened to appeal to them,

like learning

Gemara

, learning

Zohar

, fasting,

davening

early at sunrise, saying the midnight prayer, this would all be speculation.

But on those three things [Meditation on God's Divine names, private prayer,

mikvah] we have the testimony of three saints that they work.

·

Rabbi

Nachman is the level of Messiah of David who combines Royalty with Beauty and

whose higher root is the Crown. Jesus is on the level of Messiah of Joseph

whose root is Foundation and whose higher root is Wisdom. One needs both - as

one sephirah by itself produces no energy. Only when they revolve around each

other are useful fruits produced

·

The way

of telling if a person is a saint is if you feel good around them. This is

because holiness permeates the area surrounding a saint.

·

There are

two kinds of saints: the hidden and the visible. The hidden saint is

accelerating towards God and thus is invisible to inertial observers some or

all the time. The world-line of this saint is a hyperbola (which is the root of

the letter Kaph), which stands for the crown, for this saint is on the level of

the crown. [This is due to the fact that an event horizon can result from

acceleration, not just a gravitational field.]
