

Chapter 1 – God, the Song of

God

Rabbi Eliyahu

The Gaon from Vilna said “there are two things about God that one

always has to keep in mind; one is that he is infinitely great and beyond our

understanding; the other that he is infinitely close to us.” Because of this,

no matter how close we try to get to God, there are always many more ways to

go. How much closer to infinity is a hundred than one? Not much. So even if we

spend our lives getting closer to God from the aspect of his infinite distance,

we are still far. But if we spend our lives getting close to him from the

aspect of his infinite closeness, then we also can't make him much closer

[1]

. Since

God is both infinitely close and far at once (and this is impossible to

comprehend) thus the only place one can find God is really in one's heart where

one feels God.

·

There is

a force in the world called God.  All forces are included in Him, but He is

really a separate force from the forces of nature. There are three aspects of

God:

●

The spiritual level immediately above every individual level.

●

The spiritual level that is inward.

●

God as he really is--infinitely above and beyond everything.

When He

acts, his mark is unmistakable like in the splitting of the Red Sea, or with

the miracles associated with saints. But there is no way of predicting when or

where He will act. He has a tendency to act in cases of prayer or trust but

that isn't a rule it is just a tendency. He objects very strongly to being

demanded to do anything. This is the reason the redemption didn't come during

the second Temple period.

Even

though He tends to act on behalf of those that trust in Him, that trust has to

be strong enough to balance out the sins of the one trusting. One can never

tell who is righteous, since a righteous person might be doing less than he

could and therefore he is considered wicked; while a wicked person may be doing

everything he can and therefore be considered righteous. Since force tends to

act only for those who it

considers

to be righteous it can easily act

for those that we consider to be very wicked people.

·

Spinoza's Proof of God - mathematical

The core

of Spinoza's proof of God is that God includes existence in his essence and

existence needs no cause because its essence is to exist (but God also has

infinite attributes besides existence.) At any rate existence needs to exist

only after it has some probability to exist which comes from the world of

akudim

which gives the wave function of the probability for the existence of the

spiritual and physical universe. That probability function in itself has a

cause, which has a cause etc., ad infinitum. This sequence of causes itself

needs a cause etc., ad infinitum - vertically - until we get to God vertically

and horizontally (ie. set of causes of the physical universe, set of causes of

the spiritual universe, set of causes of the spiritual spiritual universe,

etc.)  And this is the idea of God's infinite essences which are one with

existence and the infinite series of causes, and the cause of the infinite

series of causes, and the cause of the cause of the infinite series of causes

etc. And then we are only dealing with the first type of infinity like the

numbers between zero and one, or for whatever interval the universe was made

in, but then we have to deal with the infinite types of infinite series of

causes of the spiritual universes.

Spinoza,

by his proof of the existence of God, wanted to avoid the problems involved

with defining God as being the first cause (for who says there has to be a

limit to the number of causes) He didn't want God to be the first cause at all

rather existence itself (or the essence of existence). The way he avoids the

opposite conclusion is by the way he defines a true idea in the treatise on

human understanding. According to that work lack of existence isn't a true idea

or a true essence at all. However Hegel considers BEING to contain its opposite

nothingness and by the contradiction that each concept contains its opposite

comes to the more refined idea of Being i.e., Becoming which is what God meant

when Moses asked his name and he said “I will be that which I will be” for the

name Ehyeh means “I will be” and is the name of the highest

sepherah

in

each world

crown

. This means that the real idea of Being is possible to

come to only after an infinite progression of dialectic. This is the reason God

is so hard to touch, since it really isn't accurate to say that he is since

that is only the first approximation of describing Him. He is like dx which is

not nothing but is infinitely small and thus contains two opposites, being and

non-being. The end of Hegel's infinite progression is what I mean above by

Existence.

Spinoza'a

proof is like the Henkin sentence which by asserting its own provability

becomes provable. It has the ability to reflect on itself and thus logically

proves the existence of God on the real level, not just in logic. It reaches

out of itself like the strange loops that logic is filled with. Since Spinoza's

system is consistent it has to reach out so to speak into another plane as all

formal systems do -- just as number theory, in order to be consistent, has to

postulate super numbers.

Spinoza's

proof of God is based on the basic idea that everything that exists either is

self-causing or it is not. That which is, is defined as God. Now even though

there is a possibility to say everything came from a quantum fluctuation, still

if in fact that and the formulas involved with its creation came into being

with no cause, that would be Spinoza's “Substance” or God. Only with the

entirety of the Seven axioms do we get to God being one and infinite and

indivisible. So the faith of the Torah is possible to prove but only if you

have faith in the seven axioms of Spinoza, which correspond to the seven lower

sephirot

of

Royalty

.

Spinoza's Seven Axioms:

●

Everything

which exists, exists either in itself or in something else.

●

That

which cannot be conceived through anything else must be conceived through

itself.

●

From

a given definite cause an effect necessarily follows and, on the other hand, if

no definite cause be granted, it is impossible that an effect can follow.

●

The

knowledge of an effect depends on and involves the knowledge of a cause.

●

Things

which have nothing in common cannot be understood, the one by means of the

other the conception of one does not involve the conception of the other.

●

A

true idea must correspond with its ideate or object.

●

If

a thing can be conceived as non-existing, its essence does not involve

existence

Spinoza Further Detail

As to B.

Russell's and Kants' criticism of Spinoza's proof of God, where they

differentiate between the existence of a thing and the idea of a thing, I must

mention that Spinoza deals with the true idea or the essence which isn't the

same as the idea. This however doesn't disprove Kant's major thesis. You need

Hegel for that.

Russell

didn't accept the concept of a strange loop and tried to disprove it by a

hierarchical method, but his principle of a self-consistent formal system

without loops has been disproven. Kant and Russell couldn't accept the fact

that a self-consistent formal system can be forced out of itself into a higher

or lower level of existence. Thus, they couldn't accept Spinoza's proof.

Spinoza does postulate cause and effect, so assuming this, would Kant say the

mind causes itself? If so then it would be God by Spinoza definition, and this

is apparently not the case anyway!

·

Idea - God is infinitely

distant behind many screens

To use

the things scientists cannot explain to prove the existence of God is not the

right approach, for what will be done when science gets around to explaining

these things (as has happened many times before)?

The only

real proofs I have seen are Spinoza’s and Descartes’. But it seems that God has

removed His light from the

Empty Space

and the closer we come to proving

Him the further He recedes. So we see that after God's existence is proved

logically, Kant comes around and attacks the ability of logic to prove

anything. And as we reveal His presence in the

empty space

that He has

created the further into the background he recedes. He hides himself in an

infinite series of hidin

g

s, i.e.

f

irst he hides and

then he hides that hiding, so that you do not know that he is hidden, then he

hides that hiding, so that you don't know that he is hiding

that

he is hiding the hiding etc.

This hiding refers to the mental universe of logic and also to the

physical world where God is sometimes revealed by miracles. Yet He still hides

Himself further after the miraculous action. The only

p

lace one can really find God is in

one's

heart, for God reveals himself inside the

hiding place

.

Only by faith can one jump over the doubts and into knowledge.

Regarding

faith, mathematics itself is founded on faith.

Von

Neumann

and Gödel proved the lack of a logical foundation for mathematics -

disproving the basic thesis of Russell and Whitehead’s

Principia Mathematica

.

Whitehead

held that

a priori

knowledge is possible, and the Principia Mathematica

represents that belief.

Von

Neumann, however, disproved the premise that all math can

be based on logic.

In the

Lekutai Moharan, Rabbi Nachman hints at the Big Bang Theory. He equates the

empty

space

with the

lack of belief

and says also that the more one knows

God the more one realizes that they do not know. That adds up to the idea that

the spiritual empty space is expanding. This would imply the same reality in

the physical realm (i.e., the big bang).

[2]

·

Idea - Flux of Secular/Religious Litvak/

Chasid

T

he

idea that nothing exists besides

God is on the level of, “He surrounds all

worlds''

, i.e., the

circular sephirot

. But on the level of the

straight sephirot

, in

which God fills all worlds, His life energy is divided among the different

levels that exist in the order of creation. That is, even though his infinite

light is everywhere and nothing exists besides It, It is not manifest in the

individual creations. The light that is manifest in individual creations is

divided by level. So there are the sparks of holiness in everything, which keep

those things existing on a manifest level. Then, there is the life force and

particular holiness inside

ideas

and

spirit, which keep those things existing

, and gives

to

them their individual character.

When one

concentrates on the idea of

their

existing,

nothing exists besides God, that is when the idea has the

most power. Just as matter cannot curve space unless it is in a concentrated

area, in the same way, this thought cannot draw the light of God unless one

really works at it.

[3]

