
general good. The root of their disagreement is in the worlds of

tohu

and

tikun

[chaos and correction]. A synthesis of their idea would be to

bring the vessels of correction and the light of chaos together so that

individual rights can be contained in the outside order.  However individual

rights or public good have absolutely no weight in Torah thought, whether the written

or Oral Law. You may find some hint here or there, but these are not Torah

ideas. The Torah has only one idea: Serve God and keep his laws and if you

serve other gods then woe is to you. However, implicit in Torah thought is the

idea that you cannot add to the laws which implies that no man can impose

further restrictions than what is already given once in the Torah, and which

will never change

·

The

system of the Torah is not centralized system. The Sanhedrin at the time was

only to decide cases of law where the litigants came to them. The king was to

guard the borders and fight the wars. The kings of Israel were heads of the

army, not judges to teach, lay down or enforce the law. Just like today the

president is the head of the armed forces (the limits to the power of a King

are a subject of debate in the

Gemarah

). [To one opinion in the

Gemara

there is no commandment to have a King at all. The Torah only says, “when you

will ask for a King.” It doesn't say you should do so.

·

Rabbi

Meir from Rotenburg the rabbi (teacher) of the

Rosh

said, “No law could

apply to a community unless the community accepted it first.” The Talmud says,

God told Moses that one can't appoint a leader over a community unless one

first asks the community. That was a case where God and Moses both knew the right

person. Thus, we find some idea of democracy in the Talmud (even though the

idea was that what the people thought mattered but that they wouldn't accept

the leader even if God said to unless they were asked first). But I must point

out the

Sanhedrin

wasn't voted on. They received

semichah

from a

rebbi who received it before them, who received it before them, etc., until

Moses. (Today there is no

semichah
