
·

Therefore,

the Torah provided a system that point's up, yet would give them an enormous

amount of freedom (within the basic political structure) for each individual to

decide for himself how to get there. Societies where there was tremendous

intellectual growth were not religiously or politically free societies. The

Renaissance which existed and flourished in Italy a hundred years before it

even reached the rest of Europe took place in a society of political intrigue

and Papal rule. Mozart lived under the reign of Fredrick II. Socrates did

pretty well in Athens for all his 90 years or so until it got to be a democracy

and they killed him (Freedom and tolerance are important but have little to do

with the type of government, rather with the type of people of the society.)

Authoritarian rule can be rational if it is to cause the growth of the people.

Revolution is justified only when the rule is not for the benefit of the

people, but not because of the type of government.

·

Shmuel

said, “there is no difference between this world and the days of the Messiah

except for subjection by governments.” This seemed to have started at least

with the concept of the Magna Carta. This is

the

beginning of the 6th

thousand-year period which is when the

Zohar

says the process of the

redemption will start, going every 60 years up to a higher level (now this

statement of Shmuel is the subject an argument in the

Gemarah:

Rabbi

Yochanan said the prophecies of all the prophets apply to the days of the

Messiah, the Rambam brings both so he seems also to be saying that the

redemption is a process that takes place over a long period of time and rising

from level to level.)

·

Now a

democracy really shouldn't be any different than any tyranny for the masses can

be just as evil as any dictator, however statistically speaking a large body of

people aren't going to be too far from the mean (average value), so generally a

democracy won't be too good or too bad (as long as one individual doesn't seize

power), while any other form will vary according to who is the king at that

time.

Therefore,

one can ask why doesn't the Torah require a Democratic form of government? The

answer is that the people did in fact choose their own king, for the Torah

addresses the Jewish people as a whole “place upon you a king”, and the idea of

the prophet or the Sanhedrin deciding was the way the people decided. (The
