
Section III - Politics

Chapter 1 – Politics and the

Torah

“Without

true virtue, God is just a word.” [Plotinus II:9]

“They make

merchandise out of you.” [Peter II]

·

Because

some people believe their purpose in life is to have pleasure, the Torah wanted

to take the major body of the Torah government out of their hands, [the

judicial branch the local, the circuit and supreme courts, and the police] and

put it into the hands of the intellectuals [Aristotle's politically minded

people], that is people that had

semicha

[rabbi from rabbi up to Moses]

so that in no way could the whims of the general people decide who should be a

rabbi. This, of course, is no guarantee, since people always get the

government, they deserve, and the intellectuals aren't going to be all that

much better or worse than the regular populace.

However,

a little bit better it does remain. The way, however, that it ensures that the

rabbis don't become a self-serving bureaucracy is by the ability of the people

to choose the king who is in control of the military.

The

reason why the Torah does give some power to the people even though they see

pleasure as being the purpose of their lives is that pleasure is a guide to

correct conduct. It isn't a goal, but it is a guide to the actions that God

considers correct. But it only comes into the category of good if it is done

for the sake of God.

·

Politics

and religion are closely related, for we find that before the Edict of

Toleration, only 10% of Romans were Christian, but within a few years after

that, the vast majority became Christian. This is one reason why rabbis and

priests guard their power so closely - it really is for the sake of God- to

keep people religious. But the externalization of religion is the death of

inner religion and piety so the Torah limits the laws that can be imposed on

people and essentially takes religion out of the hands of man and sets up the

rabbis only to clarify points of the law about which some doubt arises and

judges and police to enforce the law. In essence the Torah is the constitution,

and the Sanhedrin is to interpret the Torah but not to change it.

·

The

argument of Rousseau and John Locke is dependent on the two worlds of chaos and

correction. Locke has individual rights reigning supreme and Rousseau the
