Chapter 6 - Success

·

“Beware

of any activity that requires the purchase of new clothes,” [

Thoreau

] because

the clothes reflect the character and if the new activity involves different

clothes, then it's not for you.

Every

person was created with a certain Tzelem {form} {world line in time and space}

that he grows into. Therefore, any attempt to impose an external order on his

life will fail. He can make plans, put in much effort and try with all his

might, but if that order is not a part of his nature, and the nature of his

world-line, it won't be successful.

This is

what Socrates meant by know yourself. Most people waste years of their lives

and sometimes all of it trying to force some type of external order on

themselves that they have been taught is right for them but really isn't.

·

Christopher Morley said,

'There is only one success -- to be able to spend your life in your own way.

[quoted in the New York Post by Nelson and Dauten].

But even

so, happiness is having worthwhile goals and accomplishing them relative to

this.

CHARACTERISTICS OF LOSERS

1)

Interrupting work to answer the phone.

2)

Not learning a useful skill.

3)

Punishing friends and being nice to enemies.

4)

Bad manners, e.g., not thanking for gifts. —

Readers

Digest

5)

Dressing inappropriately

6)

Coming late for an appointment

CHARACTERISTICS OF WINNERS

1)

Maximizing the number of minimum (small

guaranteed) gains, as opposed to big non-guaranteed gains (as in Game Theory).

This is like Rabbi Nachman's way of learning quickly to gain as many small

points as possible as opposed to learning one part of the subject really well

but at the expense of getting the overview well. The Baal Hatanyah deals at

great length to resolve the conflict of which is more important; the overall

view [the name 52]; or the inner light of the specific details [the name 45].

2)

Taking a long time to get to the goal. Every

day for twenty years is a lot more than cramming it in six months and

forgetting. Thus, the idea of the Noam Elimelech: lessons every day to learn a

little bit Bible, a little bit halacha, a little bit of science, a little

Kabbalah, a little meditation. Over the course of many years, it adds up

·

When Pope

Julius II asked Michelangelo when the work on the Sistine Chapel would be done,

he answered, “When I shall have done all that I believe required to satisfy

art.” It occurs to me this is exactly the idea of James Cameron's obsession

with getting the Titanic a hundred percent right and not caring about

dead-lines or cost. “I made it a sacred goal of the production, a goal that

came to be shared by everyone involved, to honor the facts without compromise.”

·

People

tend to have some particular addiction which comes up in their conversation. -

i.e., a certain affixation on a certain body part, or idea, or event that they

continuously bring up. This is indicative of the nature of the outer light

surrounding that person or lack of it in certain places. These hang-ups are

what prevents a person from success.

·

The

difference between good and evil is that a good person gets pleasure out of

giving someone pleasure and an evil person gets pleasure from causing pain. It

really has little to do with who is receiving the good for the good, enjoy

giving pleasure even to evil people and the evil get pleasure from causing pain

even to their friend. Most people are between these two extremes and try to

benefit their friends, but this doesn't reflect their true character.

·

The

question of how to react to an enemy is the subject of debate in every

generation. The Sages of the Talmud say one who is kind in a place where

cruelty is needed, will eventually become cruel where kindness is needed. You

should pray for the good of your enemies but still guard yourself from them. I

think this idea would explain most of the statements of Jesus, the Bible, the

Besht, Buddha and the Sutras in this regard, so that there shouldn't be any

contradiction.

This is why I have written that the blessing in the eighteen

blessings cursing the non-believers should be skipped.

It seems

clear from the historical record that the Christians were originally considered

part of Judaism, and thus protected under Roman law and not obligated to

sacrifice to the image of the emperor. However, after much effort was spent

explaining to the Roman officials that the Christians were not a part of

Judaism, the persecutions began at the time of Judge Pilany and continued for

two hundred years. Now, to me it seems obvious who was the most anxious to

exclude the Christians from Judaism. In fact, there was a very rich agnostic

who wanted to exclude all references to the Jewish root of Jesus in the four

Gospels — and was told to take his money and leave. It seems the early church

wanted to preserve their Jewish roots. So, praying/cursing and hatred against

the Christians just seems to have backfired against us. Perhaps it's about time

to admit our mistake.

·

Saving

the world is not a noble occupation. It usually results in suffering, not help.

If the world has ever been made a better place, it’s by the self-searchers who

seek only to understand and correct themselves.

·

Just

because you get inspired by a place doesn't mean it’s any good. It may just be

the sparks of holiness that have fallen there and see you and attach themselves

to their root, i.e., your soul.

·

What

disturbs men’s minds is not events but their judgements on events.

­-

Epictetus

·

I have

heard from almost every enemy I ever had (by way of conversation with them

before they became my enemies), what their world view of people was — and it

always was the same -- they look at people friends or relatives as

assets

.

These

people make it their business to get as many friends as possible to further

their objectives. In retrospect, I can see why all these people ended up being

my sworn enemies. They discovered that I think too independently to be an asset

to anything or anyone. And it’s interesting to notice the world-view of all

those who remained my friend. Invariably, they look at people from an extremely

human point if view.

·

If

someone has betrayed you once, be sure that they will do it again if you give

them a chance. This can refer to parents or friends or anyone or a collective

community.

·

Life is

peace

with conflict.

·

By doing

kindness (many times) one suffers, but one should know that suffering would

have come upon him anyway, in a different form, except that by doing the

kindness the judgement is weakened.

Learning

heavy books which have to be done sitting down should be by making a pile of

them on one side of the desk and doing the amount necessary and transferring

them one by one to the opposite side of the desk. For lighter books one should

lie down and hold them over his head so the blood rushes to the head and

concentration is easier.

·

For

depression one has to go to the mikvah or a natural body of water and dip in

his whole body and play a musical instrument in order to draw the surrounding

light of

Binah

— Understanding.

·

Never

take yourself or what you are doing so seriously as to look down on others. It

is very important to give every person respect because God created them for His

reasons and has a place for everyone in His heart. Every person is born with a

certain Tzelem” or Form that he is born into. It isn't in his power to change

it. So, it isn't right to look down on anyone, even evil people. They may have

the ability to change but so do you and how easy is it for you to change your

character?

·

When

there are indications not to do something that one supposes is a mitzvah

sometimes the indication is to tell you that it is not a mitzvah. However, the

other times it is to tell you that it is an extremely important mitzvah. The

only way of telling is to go into your closet and meditate until hopefully you

get the right answer. The reason for this is that each person has a root soul

in Emanation, creation Formation or the physical universe. Since each of these

four worlds has varying degrees of evil the indications also will vary. Thus, a

person whose root soul is in Emanation will have all the indications pointing

in the correct direction. One whose root is in Creation will have the majority

pointing in the right direction. For Formation the majority is in the wrong

direction and for the physical person all the indications are in the wrong

direction-which causes them to remain physical and never to try to rise above

it. Those involved all day in physical activity are from the physical. Those

involved in learning are from Formation. Those involved in meditation and

prayer are from Creation and those whom the Light shines on the whole day are

from emanation. Sometimes a lot depends, however, on the place also since for

instance New York has only the light of Formation and the Physical. In some

places like Israel the light of Emanation shine but the light causes souls of

people not prepared for the light whose root souls aren't from emanation to

break and become evil. California has the light of Creation. Thus, Israel won't

be safe until collectively Jesus and Rabbi Nachman are accepted since then

there would be a connection for every person with emanation in the way that

wouldn't break their vessels.

