Chapter 2 – Prayer

·

One

should not cover his head for prayer, for the reason the Sages give for

covering the head is that people don't stand before a king with their head

uncovered. Nowadays one can't stand before a king or with his head

covered

and it is a sign of disrespect to do so, so all the more so one should not do

so in front of God. In Tractate Soferim [Chapter 14, Halachah 15] (which is the

root for the law of wearing a head cover to the Gra it says ‘One who is not

wearing shoes or whose garments are torn or whose head is not covered is

allowed to lead the congregation in prayer up until the 18 blessings. Some say

only one who is not wearing shoes or whose garments are torn but one whose head

is uncovered is not allowed to. He is not allowed to say the Divine Name...

However, to both opinions he can translate but he can't read the Torah scroll

for the congregation and lead the congregation for the 18 blessings.” Wearing

one at any other time is certainly not required. And that was at the time when

it was a sign of respect to wear one in front of a king. Now it is a sign of

disrespect. [As the Targum Onkulus says they went out of Egypt with uncovered

heads.] However, the Gemara itself does say one shouldn't walk four steps

without one's head covered, so even though the Rambam holds that is only for a

Wise person still this Gemara does imply that it is a good thing for everyone.

·

One should

endeavor to recite the Shema immediately upon rising, before sunrise, in

accordance with the view of Rabbi Eliezer. The Rambam rules that the halachah

follows the Sages—who permit its recitation until the end of the third hour of

the day—only in a case where one has not managed to say it before sunrise.

Nonetheless, one is obligated to strive to say it at that earlier time

.

At night, one

should wait until the time established by Rabbenu Tam, approximately ninety

minutes after sunset (according to some opinions, seventy-two minutes). This,

however, does not imply that one must don tefillin or recite the Amidah at that

moment; those may be performed until the conclusion of the day

.

In the

teachings of Kabbalah, a greater emphasis is placed upon rising at midnight to

engage in Torah study. In matters where the Kabbalistic tradition and the legal

authorities differ, one should follow the Kabbalistic path. It is told that

when the Baal HaTanya was asked about this, he affirmed that one should indeed

act in accordance with Kabbalah. When the questioner objected, noting that the

Shulchan Aruch HaRav instructs to follow the legal authorities, the Baal

HaTanya replied: “That is what the legal authorities wrote.”

·

To some

opinions brought in the

Shulchan Aruch

one who is not married is not

required to wear teffilin. Yet because the Baal Shem Tov in his will did emphasize

saying the Shema exactly as the commandment was meant to be I think one should

try to do so. [The five things mentioned in the will of the Baal Shem Tov were:

a.

Learning books of ethics every day.

b.

Carefulness in keeping Shabbat.

c.

Carefulness in saying the Shema.

d.

Going to the mikvah for with the kabalistic

intentions.

e.

Doing a kindness for someone every day.

·

To Rav

Yehuda in the name of Shmuel saying the Shema is a rabbinical mitzva. It seems

the authorities hold it is Biblical because of the Gemara in Sucah. However, it

would seem that since Brachot is the main place of the subject we ought to

follow the conclusion of the Gemara there that it is rabbinical.

·

Grace

after bread is possible to shorten. For the first blessing only the first and

last sentence are required. [As the Sages said if one says “blessed is the

Master of this bread”, he had fulfilled his obligation. However, since a

blessing that starts and ends with a blessed can't be changed from that form,

one must say as I have said.] For the second one needs to mention only the

covenant and the Torah and then the final blessing. For the third one, one

needs to mention only the kingdom of David and the last blessing. The fourth

needs only the three mentions of goodness and the three mentions of abundance.

·

The short

prayer

Havinanu

in

Brachot

can be substituted for the 18

blessings for the evening and afternoon service. The

Halachah

is like

Rabban Gamliel only in so much that one must

pray

the entire

Shemone Esre

once a day.

·

It seems

to me that it is better not to say the blessing to curse the slanderers since

it doesn't do any good to curse ones enemies and the curse just returns on

oneself if he is not worthy on any future day.

·

Don't

pray for a true soul mate for the Rambam says there is no such thing [in the

eight chapters (and Rabbi Nachman agrees). So, you just won't get married at

all since there is no true mate. Rather man has complete free will to choose

who to marry. Only in what happens to one he has no free will, not in things

one does.

