
Section V - Christianity

Chapter 1 – Jesus Christ

·

The

argument against Jesus is primarily based on the references in the Talmud

against a certain Yeshu which was a common name at the time and the book “Seder

Olam” refers to three Jesus's that lived at that time, and one that lived at

the beginning on the second temple period who was the disciple of Rabbi

Yehoshua Ben Chananya. Historically, there was a famous Jesus also at the

actual time of the Destruction of the Temple that used to walk around the city

of Jerusalem predicting it's doom. The Tikunai Zohar also has a reference

against Jesus. However, in all fairness it seems likely that the Zohar and the

Gemara were in fact referring to Jesus and in fact didn't like him.

·

Rabbenu

Asher (the Rosh) writes at the end of Gittin that the Jesus mentioned there is

not Jesus Christ. To say that the other places where that same person is

mentioned in the Talmud are him would require a proof, of which there is none.

In fact, the facts of the life of Jesus have been corroborated by at least 60 non-Christian

documents, and none of the stories of the Talmud about Yeshu fit any of the

facts about Jesus we are forced to admit that the Yeshu of the Talmud is not

Jesus Christ, rather someone else at the beginning of the 2

nd

-Temple

period who was a disciple of Rabbi Yehoshua Ben Perachiya, as the Talmud says,

while Jesus Christ of Nazareth was born 400 years later.

·

According

to Rabbi Avraham Abulafia, Jesus is the Messiah son of Joseph -- a preliminary

stage before the Messiah son of David, i.e., the sephirah of Foundation. The

concept of a messiah from Efraim is brought in the Gemarah Zohar, especially in

the works of Rabbi Moshe Chayim Lutzato, and the Gra in Kol Hator (i.e., the

sephirah of Foundation). (He [Rabbi Abulafia] also says things about the cross

which would imply that Jesus didn't lose his high level of Messiah son of

Joseph any time. Yet, he also says the verse “you shouldn't have a false god”

applies to Jesus -- meaning that the church after him did fall into idolatry.)

What is

significant about the opinion of Rabbi Abulafia is that all the major

kabbalists accept him as an authority. Rabbi Chayim Vital quotes him

extensively in vol. 4 of Shaarai Kedusha, and Rabbi Moshe Cordovaro quotes his

books all throughout the Pardes. The Chida (Rabbi Chayim David Azulai) has a

section on him in Shemos Hagedolim, and concludes that he was in fact a great

saint). (The fact that Rabbi Abulafia did write this about Jesus is easy to see

for anyone who wants to take the time to go to the basement of the national

library at Hebrew University and look at the microfilm copies of his books.

(Professor

Moshe Aidel has written and published extensively about Rabbi Abulafia.) (The

Halachah in the long run will turn out to be that since the validity of Jesus

is a debate among the Rishonim (authorities of the Middle Ages) either

accepting him or not is valid according to the Torah rules, and neither one way

or the other can be excluded from valid Judaism. (It would be pretty hard to

exclude Rabbi Chayim Vital from valid Judaism after he has made his way into

the Shulchan Aruch and the Mishna Berura. In fact, the authorities in the

Shulchan Aruch sometimes hold an opinion, but then write that after they found

out that the Kabbalah said differently, they withdraw it, for “who can go after

the lion?”).

·

Rabbi Abulafia's

idea is crystal clear. In a nutshell it is that Jesus was a prelude to the

redemption. For, at the original breaking of the spiritual vessels of

nekudim

the vessel of the sephirah of Foundation (Jesus) broke because of the light

coming into it from the higher sephirot -- which couldn't contain the light.

After it fell with all the other broken vessels into the creation, God fixed it

and brought it up to Emanation (its original place), and God strengthened it

and gave it power to contain the light of Kindness. Therefore, Jesus being

united with the trait of Foundation and containing the light of Kindness is a

kind of pipeline for the light of Kindness to be drawn into the world.

·

This is

different from Messiah of David who is united with the Trait of Royalty and has

a different job in the world, the completion of the process. This idea of Jesus

is in conformity with the New Testament, but is very different from the

Christian idea of Jesus. Their idea of Jesus being a second giving of the Torah

seems to be totally alien to Torah theology, however Rabbi Judah Ha Levi wrote

in “the Kuzari” that both Christianity and Islam will share in the messianic

benefits as branches of Judaism and were foretold in Ezekiel 37:17. The Rambam

goes even further and says that Christianity and Islam spread the words of the

Torah and “the law of truth” over the whole world. The amazing thing is to see

how many of the major halachic authorities wrote along these same lines: Rabbenu

Gershom, Rashi, the Rashba, Rav Sheshet [in Tosphot], the Beit Joseph, the

Rema, and Rabbi Yakov Emden. [Rabbi Yaakov Emden calls Christianity the “part”

of the Torah given to the non-Jew.]

·

At the

time of the breaking of the vessels the

sefirah

of Foundation (of

Akudim) fell into the world of Creation. And then God brought it back into the

world of Emanation and drew into it the light of Kindness.

Therefore,

Jesus being unified with the trait of Foundation had in him the light of

kindness. But he was not a prophet, since he never claimed to have prophecy and

never said, “Thus sayeth the Lord”. A prophet is connected to Victory or

Splendor not to Foundation or Royalty like Messiah of Joseph or David.

·

Rabbi

Moshe Chayim Lutzato in the Ginzei Haramchal, (pg. 246) seems to be referring

to the aspect of the fall of Jesus to which Rabbi Abulafia also refers in which

Jesus, became the subject of idol-worship of the church until the Reformation

of Martin Luther.

·

That part

of the soul of Jesus (the lowest of the 4 parts) may very well have been in

hell until the time Rabbi Chayim Vital saw him rise from hell. This is like

part of the soul of Samuel which Saul spoke with.

·

It is

possible that Rabbi Abulafia is of the same opinion as Rabbi Moshe Chayim

Lutzato that Jesus fell into the evil

kelipot

and that the Gemarahs

about “that person” in fact refer to Jesus. That is the job of every righteous

person to go into the klipot and to rise therefrom, so that by his rising he

should bring all the sparks of holiness that have fallen there up with him. It

is odd the Jews and Christians agree that Jesus went into hell. Their

disagreement is on the duration of his visit and the purpose of it. They both

are looking at the same event, but from different perspectives.

·

The Sages

must have seen Jesus going into a black hole which led to the separate universe

of the Christians and never saw him arrive — just suspended in space but from

the perspective of Jesus he went in and came out of the white hole on the other

side.

·

The root

of Jesus is in the circular sephirot, therefore he is usually only accepted by

non-Jews whose roots are also there. That is why Jesus is considered bad by

Jews whose root is in the straight sepherot, for when they look at him they see

him in an area which, relative to their position in the empty space is the

klipot, but from the aspect of the circular sephirot it's the highest degree of

holiness.

·

Since

Jesus was from Joseph his holiness is hidden, “as the fish in the sea” (the

blessing given to Joseph) — and therefore the Sages of the Talmud didn't

recognize his greatness. We find that Rabbi Akiva thought Bar Kochba was the

Messiah, and he endorsed him. We find many places were the Sages admit their

fallibility. I don't see why we should attribute to them something they didn't

hold applied to them. (In fact, we see in the incident of Rabbi Eliezer that

they didn't care if God himself held differently than them. Their job, as the

saw it was to decide the law based on the majority opinion —whether that opinion

was right or wrong just didn't matter.

Yet,

according to the Torah the majority opinion can be wrong (Leviticus 4:13)

[14]

: which, according to the Talmud in

Shavuot is referring to the Sanhedrin of 71 elders permitting accidentally one

of the 36 types of sin that involve being cut off. So the majority is the way

to decide the law, not the way to discover truth.) The Talmud is a record of

the Oral Law as it was discussed and debated at that time. The Sages don't need

to be infallible in order to be deep and important just like Newton's Theory of

gravitation was deep and fruitful even though it wasn't correct --but a

necessary stage of development.

·

We need

to look at the New Testament and the Gemarah with historical retrospect and

care, but also with respect. The 57 or so New Testament documents dug up in

Egypt don't disagree on the basic facts of the life and teachings of Jesus.

When we do this, a very clear picture of the Christian sect just being another

sect besides the Scribes, Prushim (Pharisees) and Essences arises, who all had

conflicting philosophies but were all equally committed to the Oral and Written

Law.

·

Now, to

find the spiritual root of the argument between Sages of the Talmud and the

Christians, since the universes of the Jews and the Gentiles are connected by a

black hole, the Sages saw Jesus fall into the black hole, but remain on the

event horizon — while from the point of view of Jesus and the gentiles, that's

when he entered their space and the time of their correction began. Before that,

Jesus simply could have gone back in time as in the Feynman diagram.

You could

conceivably have several manifestations of a tzadik (saint) at any one time,

the one coming back (the 2nd coming is a constant process), and another that

has already returned and going about preaching (as poor man and as the son of

God coming on the wings of Heaven) (even conceivably as a good and bad one that

meet at the bottom of the “v”and 8 each other and the soul of the tzadik-saint

coming back through time losing entropy and the body going forward in time and

their meeting and disappearing into pure energy, and then in that form transversing

the realm of space-time until actually entering the black hole and disappearing

from the Jewish scene, …so in essence I'm saying the dispute between the

Christians and the Jews for the last 2000 years has been due to a lack of

imagination). This is also how its possible for many people to have the level

of Messiah the Son of Joseph through the soul of Jesus or the sparks of his

soul.

[IMAGE: image053.gif]

(The

reason the world of the Jew and gentile is connected solely by a black hole is

that the circular sephirot were drawn out into the empty space, and then

starting from the top again were drawn to the straight ones -- so basically, to

get to them you would have to go through the singularity in the center -- (which

from the aspect of the straight sephirot looks like the lowest one could sink

to -- and it appears one stays there forever), and then come out the other end

and enter into the circular sephirot, which is basically what Jesus did.

The idea

of God appearing as a person is mentioned in the Gemarah of Sannhedrin where it

says God went into a physical body at the time of Nebuchadnezzar to give him a

haircut (which most rabbis don't mention when arguing against the Trinity).

So,

theoretically there can be a world line of Moses, or any saint like so:

[IMAGE: image054.gif]

So at any

one period of time the soul of a tzadik can be viewed as either good or bad (an

anti-particle), depending on where you met his world line (as the Zohar says,

“The spirit of Moses is stretched out throughout all generations”, this means

that the time-line of Moses is stretched out through all sephirot, which, to

the Ramchal is the time-line. So, I really haven't added anything new here.

A.

One progressing with the world getting older.

B.

One getting younger.

C.

One the oldest is aging to the world outside having returned from

the future.

·

Since

Jesus is united with the sepherah of Foundation which contains the light of Kindness,

it is impossible to receive the light of Kindness without some direct or

indirect connection with him. Even an unknown connection can draw that light

(even if one just says he doesn't know) -- but a total denial of him seems to

lead to wickedness.

·

Jesus

himself says that the Messiah can't be the son of David. This seems to imply in

itself that he was the Messiah from Joseph who must precede Messiah son of

David.

God promised David that the Messiah would come from his male seed.

And in general, the succession to the Crown is through the male seed as it says

in Deut. 17:20, “so that he will have length of days in his rulership, he and

his sons in the midst of Israel.” Jesus was descended from David only from his

mother's side.

·

Jesus

quoted the Torah when tempted by the evil one, “The Lord Your God You shall

fear and Him alone you shall serve.” It seems clear that Jesus believed one

must serve God alone, not Jesus. The Torah also says, “There is nothing besides

God.” Coming to this knowledge of the oneness and uniqueness of God -- loving

him and fearing him and keeping His commandments -- is what the Torah defines

as serving God.

·

Because

of the uncertainty principle, there will always be questions on Jesus or any

saint that can't be answered. Like the fall of Rome, the crusades, the

treatment of Galilio. If you believe in the Torah and the Talmud, there will be

questions you can't answer either.

·

The

Gemarah in Avodah Zara (pg. 9) says that you shouldn't buy land outside of

Israel after 470 AD, for the Redemption will have come already. It also says

the Messiah will come when the Roman Empire has spread over the whole world —

which means that the whole world known then (as they said about Achashveirosh,

that he ruled over the entire world, which was only actually the Persian

Empire).

At any

rate, the Roman Empire doesn't exist, so neither of these Gemarah's make sense

unless they are referring to Jesus. (Besides this, Rabbi Abulafia said that the

Gemarah in Sukkah regarding the Messiah son of Joseph that it  is referring to

Jesus.)

·

Jesus

being a tzadik makes it allowed to ask him for a blessing just as with any

Torah sage, as the Talmud says, “One who has someone ill at home should go to

the Torah sage in his town to pray for him.” In another place in the Talmud, it

says when a certain rabbi needed to be saved from his enemies, he went to the

graves of his parents to ask them for help [not for their prayers but for their

help].

The Sages

say that the reason the grave of Moses was not revealed is that if the Jewish

people would know where it is and go there and ask him to pray for them that

the final redemption would come right away.

·

Daniel

8:22 has to be referring to Alexander the Great (of Macedon) since in the

previous verse Daniel says the previous Empire was Media and Persia. This verse

says the empire of Alexander would be broken into four parts. I would like to

suggest that they are:

1.

Egypt under Ptolemy Soter.

2.

The Indian territories and part of Afghanistan which were given to

an Indian ruler in

return for military help.

3.

The Seleucid Empire

.

4.

Macedon.

This

would imply that the next few verses would be referring to Jesus who was in

fact at the latter time of the Greek Kingdom, after the Greeks were protected

and freed by Roman decree [so at least they could be described as a kingdom if

not an empire].

The

verses later in Daniel 11 say openly that a messiah would arise during the

empire that comes after the fall of the Greek empire and that could only be the

Roman empire. The Talmud also says that the Messiah would come only when the

Roman empire would spread over the whole world. Since the Talmud also says

about Achashvairosh that his empire spread over the entire world would mean the

whole known world at that time, this would imply that the messiah came when the

Roman Empire was at its peak, not necessarily over the whole world, but the

whole ‘known world’ at that time, which was during the rule of  Tiberius, when

the Roman Empire reached its peak.

The Roman

Catholic Church isn't the equivalent of the Roman Empire, since it existed at

the time the Talmud was written, and if the Talmud had meant the church it

wouldn't have written ‘the government’ [‘Malchus Romi’, which translated means

the government of Rome].

The whole

story there in Daniel 11 seems to be clearly talking about Julius Caesar and

Cleopatra, as has been noted before by the Jewish commentaries. And then, “AT

THAT TIME”, the redemption comes. So it seems we have to conclude that the

particular messiah it is referring to is Jesus, as Rabbi Abulafia already

concluded in his kabbalistic way. [Daniel 9 also says that the messiah would

come during the second temple period.]

·

Faith in

any saint has to be with understanding the true position and spiritual level of

that saint. Otherwise, it is possible to fall from that faith. Therefore it is

important to understand the place that Jesus takes amongst the other saints,

and not to make it to seem that he was the only one that ever existed. This

doesn't contradict the idea of the Trinity. It merely puts it into perspective.

·<???>

Joseph

was the basis for the sepherah of Foundation in Emanation. Jesus is the new

basis. The change of basis matrix is:

(Ye)  = a

11

Y + a

12

O + a

13

Se + a

14

Ph

(SH) = a

21

Y + a

22

O + a

23

Se + a

24

Ph

(U)   = a

31

Y + a

32

O + a

33

Se + a

34

Ph

(A)   = a

41

Y + a

42

O + a

43

Se + a

44

Ph

[I used

here the four letters of Joseph's name, and the four letters of Jesus name in

Hebrew as vectors. I assumed Joseph is the first foundation (basis) and Jesus

is the new foundation. (Here I am assuming that Jesus is Foundation of

Emanation, not just of the circular sephirot, and represents a change of basis

and not just a new mapping into the circular sephirot. I don't know how to

represent that type of mapping. It seems likely that there is a connection

between this and the 4 times 4 matrix of the four Divine names: 72, 63, 45, 52.

The only connection I have ever been able to find is in the first blessing of

the Shemone Esre where Foundation is brought up to Glory which is the

sepherah

that is associated with the Divine name of four letters.)

·

One of

the arguments used against the trinity is that God can't come down to earth in

a bodily form, yet we find in the Gemarah Sa­nhedrin (95b) that he did just

that as it says there, “Rabbi Abahu said that ‘if the verse didn't write it, it

would be impossible to say’. The verse states: ‘On that day God will shave with

the razor on the other side of the river the king of Assyria, the head and the

hair of the feet and also the beard he will take away. The Holy One, Blessed is

He, came and appeared to him [Sancheriv] as an old man. He said to him, “when

you go to the kings of the east and the west, what will you say?” He answered,

“I am also worried about this, what should we do?” He said, “Go and disguise

yourself.” He asked, “how should I do that?” He said, “go bring me a scissors

and I'll give you a haircut”. “From where should I get it?” “Go into that house

over there.” He went and found some ministering angles who appeared to him as

men and they were grinding date seeds. He said “give me a scissor”. They said

“first grind one seed and well give you a pair”. By the time he got back it was

already dark. He said “bring a lamp” he went and got one. As he was coming a

spark touched his beard and his beard caught fire. He came and he gave him a

hair cut. Rav Papa said that explains the common saying “if you singe an

Assyrian and he liked it burn his beard also.”

I can

imagine many will think that this Gemara doesn't mean this literally, however,

that is not so since Rabbi Abahu said, “If the verse didn't say this it would

be impossible to say.” Now, if the whole story is just a parable, then it would

be possible to say. Rather, Rabbi Abahu is saying that this verse is saying

something so contrary to reason that if it didn't say it, it would be

impossible to say, i.e., that God himself came down to Earth in a physical body

to give Sancheriv a haircut.

The Zohar

has nothing to compare with this except that it says (vol 3, pg. 240): even

though it is not the way of God to eat and drink, for the love of the Jewish

people, God eats and drinks.

Incidentally,

I think the Gemara in Sanhedrin it refers to is the sepherah called “Tiferet” [Beauty],

since the Zohar usually refers to that particular sepherah by the same language

that the Gemara used, i.e., “the Holy One, Blessed Be He”.

[Perhaps

there is a hint for this idea in Genesis. For it says,  “a man fought with

Jacob”, and later the man said “you have fought with God and with men”, and

when asked his name he refused to identify himself and later Jacob called the

place “The Face of God, for he said ‘I have seen God face to face and my soul

was saved’”. [This is the literal translation.] Later, the Prophet Hoshea said

about this that God appeared to him and served him. [

Hoshea

12:3-6]

Now, the

sages have a different idea of what happened there, and said it referred to the

angel of Esau — which really isn't a problem, for the simple explanation is that

God contains all aspects good and evil for there is nothing besides him. Now,

if that was God in human form, who we usually refer to as Jesus, it is in fact

interesting that Jesus became the intercessor of Esau [Rome]. It is assumed in

general that God refers in general to the aspect of God that is above all time

and space, but also to each individual level that is one step  higher that the

previous, which contains the light of God relative to that previous level.

As the

Sages said about the Tana who explained every Hebrew word

ET

in the

Torah as a

ribui

— including something else — when he got to the verse

that says, “‘

Et’

the Lord your God you shall fear”, he stopped. For what

could that

ET

possibly include?

Until

Rabbi Akiva came and explained, “‘

Et

the Lord your God you shall fear’,

to include disciples of the wise.”]

[This

idea that God is each immediate higher level is actually hinted at in the Torah,

where Abraham said to Avimelech, “the gods tricked me into leaving my father’s

home” i.e., the set of all the spiritual levels up to God].

I know

that the two major themes of the Old Testament are that there is only One God

and to Him alone it is proper to pray and serve. And the other being that the

Jewish people are the chosen people forever and that this will never change.

However, the idea that we need an intermediary is also there, from the

blessings of the Patriarchs to the requests of the people to the prophets.

Thus, I

would like to suggest that the level to which no intermediary is necessary  is

the level immediately above one called Elohim which is the set of all those

levels. But to God as he is really is above time space and conception [that is

represented by the ineffable Name], apparently we do need some help

approaching. I don't mean that we can't approach Him directly because obviously

we can, but rather that it helps to have a little help.

Why else

do we do the

mitzvot

? Because God said to. Well, God also said about the

angel he was sending before the Jewish people, “Don't disobey him for my Name

is in him.” So here, God himself has indicated the significance of an

intermediary. (“Other gods” are other levels not attached to the “rope of

holiness”, i.e., that are not manifestations of God.)

[In every

generation, there were and will always be one part of the Torah that will be

politically incorrect. The Rambam made a somewhat reactionist theology against

Christianity but the simple way the sages look at the Torah is thus, as I have

written. E.g., when they explained that God called Jacob ‘God’ as

Rashi

brings down in

Genesis

that would seem to go against the Rambam that you

can't call a person God [the

Raavad

in fact disagreed with the Rambam

and held that believing that God was or can be manifested in a body is not

against the Torah].

The

Rambam obviously was embarrassed by many laws of the Torah that seem to go

against reason, and he had to create a rationalization for them. Nowadays,

other parts of the Bible bother us, e.g., when God promises to give the land of

Israel to the children of Abraham and then Ishmael is born and God promises to

Abraham that Ishmael will fear God.

Now,

slavery of the Bible is embarrassing to the Jews, and the fact that the Bible

says you have to go to the rabbis to understand the Torah correctly is embarrassing

to the Christians. Now, legally speaking, the slavery of the Torah is actually

seldom, or indentured servants — because there are strict laws of how to treat

a slave, and in fact the Russians were doing a lot better as serfs under the

Tzar than when they were emancipated and toppled the Tzar and created a

communist state.

Now what

was God doing wrestling with Jacob? If we say that was the aspect of God that

contains evil then this is understood. Or just the opposite. Perhaps it was the

good aspect of God fighting with the evil aspect of Jacob. For Jacob contained

all the future Jewish souls many of which are not good.

It could

also refer to chaos and correction, i.e., God represents the higher world of

chaos [63] and Jacob, correction [45] as it usually is thus in

Kabbalah

anyway and the wrestling is the vessels of correction trying to contain the

light of chaos until the dawn, i.e., the rising of the light of the name 72.

I think

the real explanation is that  first Yaacob had to fight God [good] and then

evil Esau which is what every person has to go through in order to come to that

level of God — beyond space-time and conception.

For a

person to come what he must come to he first has to fight evil, then he has to

fight God, and then becomes a man. [There is a certain point a person needs to

come to, a critical mass, so to speak, for him to start to wake up.]

This is

represented by the fact that God put the fiery angels before the path to Gan

Eden. For one must go through Hell and Heaven to come to the

Tree of Life

.

The angels try to stop one and then if they don't succeed they use their sword.

God here

also represents Being [the right

sepherah

Kindness], and Esau non-being

[the left

sepherah

, lack of light]. Jacob had to fight both to come to

“Becoming” [the middle

sepherah

,

Yod

He

Vav

He

.]

This is the significance of the wrestling, i.e., the joining of Jacob's level

[right] with Esau's level [left] to come to the middle [Torah].

The

reason Infinite God is sometimes manifested in finite space and time, as with

Jesus, or in the Temple, or in other ways, is to give the finite intelligence

of man some grasp of Him and thus to become attached to Him which is the

purpose of man’s creation. Since there are five levels of man's soul, each manifestation

of God is to give man a grasp of a higher infinity [as the difference between

all the numbers between 0 and 1 and all the numbers between 0 and 2]. As the:

1.

Temple [inanimate]

2.

The Waters: “The spirit of God hovered on the

face of the Waters”.

3.

The Chayot: “I the Chayot that I had see on

the river Cevarand, on it was the Presence of God. (Chayot can mean animal in

Hebrew). It refers to a type of angel that is the higher spirit of the animal

kingdom.

4.

Jesus. “Also, the Presence spoke through the

mouth of Moses”.

5.

God also spoke frequently in the Bible

through an angel to reveal His Infinity to the highest level of man, the

Yechida.

·

One of

the arguments I have heard against Jesus is that the three requirements of the

Messiah were not fulfilled by him, i.e., the three requirements the Rambam

gives: of building the Temple, returning all Israel to the 613 commandments,

and gathering the dispersed of Israel.

However

we find that these things are the subject of a debate in the Gemara, Sanhedrin

98a. Rabbi Yochanan in fact says like the Rambam that all the promises of the

prophets are for the days of the messiah while the higher spiritual world we

can't comprehend. Shmuel says that all the promises are in fact for the higher

spiritual world while the only difference between his time [under Babylonian

rule] and the time of the messiah will be the subjection of the nations on

Israel.

That is

in fact probably what would have happened if they had accepted the teachings of

Jesus [since it was the hot headed nationalists then who provoked the wrath of

the Romans and the subsequent exile. But any savior can't do his job unless he

is believed in. Even Moses could do nothing with the many people that didn't believe

in him, as the sages said that only

1/5

th

or

1/50

th

of

Israel came out of Egypt since the rest God caused to die during the seven days

of darkness, since they didn't believe in Moses.

[So in a

way, Moses brought a worse Holocaust on the Jewish people than the Nazis since

the Nazis never got up to killing 88% or 98% of the Jewish people. So we see

being a savior isn't enough. The people have to accept the savior. And if they

don't, woe to them]. And if no one had believed, Moses in fact could not have

saved anyone — as he told God his reason for not wanting to go, “They won't believe

in me.” And, in fact, his promise to bring that generation into Israel would

have been a false prophecy if not for the two people of the generation that did

believe in him all the way: Calev Ben Yefune and Hoshea Ben Nun.

But at

any rate God's purpose will not be thwarted totally, and we find with the

introduction of the Magna Carta in the beginning of the 6th millennium when God

did promise the redemption, that the yoke of the nations has slowly been lifted

off Israel, who are now able to live in relative freedom compared to the chaos

and suffering under the Romans and the Dark Ages.

In fact,

I think that it is possible that Shmuel was referring to messiah of Joseph and

Rabbi Yochanan to the messiah from David. And, in fact this is hinted at by the

Rambam who brings the statement of Shmuel also, so apparently, he felt that it

is possible to reconcile those statements. This, however is not like the gemara

which says openly that Rabbi Yochanan and Shmuel disagree.

·

One of

the other objections I have heard against Jesus is that his teachings disagree

with that of the Sages: however I have found that not to be correct, e.g.,

Jesus held that a saint has the power to forgive sin as it says in

masechta

Rosh Hashanah

17b, God forgives the sin of many for the sake of the one and

also we find, Moses prayed to God, “forgive their sin and if not, wipe me out

of your book”.

·

Another

objection I have heard is that Jesus put good character traits above doing the

commandments. This would in fact be a legitimate complaint if not that all the

later Sages of Israel agreed with it. The Chafetz Chayim wrote in Shmirat

HaLashon that good character comes first as it says in the verse, “To walk in

his ways and to keep his commandments,” and he brings another statement from

the sages, that the first thing a verse mentions is first in importance before

the later thing — and, this verse specifically is referring to kindness and

compassion. The Kabbalist Rashash says, along these lines in

Nahar Shalom,

that character is the basic soul of a person, while the commandments are only

the garments of the soul. The Gra says things along these lines throughout his

books.

·

We find

in Sanhedrin 104b, that the Anshei Keneset HaGedolah wanted to count King

Solomon among those who have no portion in the next world. Different echoes

came to indicate to them that they were wrong until eventually they changed

their minds. My question is if this body of Sages which included the three last

prophets could make a mistake about King Solomon, couldn't the later Sages of

subsequent generations make similar mistakes. Now, the Anshei Keneset HaGedolah

were so great that God kept trying to convince them of their mistake until they

finally gave in, but who says that God would do that with later sages?

·

One of

the objections I have heard against Jesus is that the Sanhedrin of the time

killed him. But, the Talmud says that Herod killed all the Rabbis of the Pharisees

who had

Semichah,

and there was left only one Rabbi, Baba Ben Buta — that

was when Jesus was only a year old or so. So, when Jesus was about thirty, how

could the Sanhedrin have very many true rabbis on it. Where could they have

come from, except the Sadducees. Anyway, we find opinions among the Christian

scholars that Scribes in the New Testament was changed from the original word ‘Sadducees’.

[In the Greek, they are very close. At the time the disciples of Paul were

editing the documents to be included in the New Testament the Sadducees were on

good terms with them and the scribes and pharisees had become enemies.

·

[On the

subject of the stirring dirt and water on Shabbat that Jesus did, cf. Beitza, Chapter

4, in the Rosh [Rabbainu  Asher]. Jesus held like Rashi in that Rosh.

·

On the

subject of washing the hands, Jesus held like the Gemara in Chulin and the

Zohar that the first washing before eating is a mitzvah not an obligation, or

he depended on the washing from the morning. He also held like the

Yerushalmi

in

Zeraim

and the

Gemara

in

Suchah

that the Sages don't

have the authority to uproot anything from the Torah even for a positive

command. The

Gemara

in

Succah

holds that we don't put off a

mitzvah of the Torah for a rabbinical decree as it says, “we don't take the

lulav

on the first day of

yom tov

that falls on

Shabbat,

because we

don't know the exact first calculation for

Rosh Chodesh

[the new moon]. Thus

if we did, we would take it in despite of the rabbinical decree of Rabbah, of ‘perhaps

he will carry it four amot in a public domain’”. The Rif states the Gemara in

Succah for the halacha, so he holds the same way. See the Ritvah in chapter 4

of Rosh Hashanah.

·

The Greek

word for picking corn also implies rubbing it between one’s fingers, which is

permitted on the Shabbat. It just seems like Jesus and his disciples

encountered on the Shabbat ultra-religious Jews who were ignorant of the

halachah as happens all the time with people that are super religious — they

always keep on adding restriction upon restriction. I have seen many times

people doing perfectly permitted things on the Sabbath and getting  attacked by

the ultra-orthodox, who simply didn't know the halachah — and even when the

Shulchan Aruch [Code of Jewish Law] was brought out to show them, they wouldn't

believe it.

It is

also interesting to note that Jesus said the same idea as the Rambam in

The

Guide

. Jesus said the Shabbat was given for man. The Rambam wrote that the

object of the entire Torah, in general, is the well-being of the body and the

soul — and specifically, the Shabbat was given to witness the fact that God

created the world, and to give man rest and comfort.

[Moreh

NevuchimIII:27, 43]

Couldn't

it have been “

hora’at sha’ah

” [a need of the hour], as the Rambam

explains about Eliyahu the prophet on Mount Carmel? For, to the Rambam Eliyahu

didn't sacrifice there because he received a prophecy allowing it, rather

because of the general principle of “

hora’at sha’ah

”.

In the

War Rule 5:1-5 of the Dead Sea Scrolls, according to the translation of Robert Eisenman

and Schiffman it says, “as it is written in the Book of Isaiah the prophet”,

“The thickets of the forest shall be hacked away with iron and the Lebanon

trees in their majesty shall fall. But a shoot shall grow out of the stump of

Jesse, [a twig shall sprout from his stoke [Isaiah 10:34 and 11:1] a shoot of

David, and they will be judged, the... and the prince of the congregation will

kill him, the army of… with drums and dances. And the high priest commanded…

the corpses of the Kittim”.

Here is

mentioned the fact that there were a few verses of Isaiah that we don't have in

the present day Isaiah. These verses clearly speak about a messiah that will be

killed by the ruler of the people and sanctioned by the high priest and armies

of the Kittim, i.e. the Romans, according to the Targum Unkelos. This explains

references that Jesus and Paul made to verses predicting his death that we

don't have in our present day Bible.

·

A further

objection I have heard is against the virgin birth. Christians usually bring a

proof to the virgin birth from Isaiah 7:14. Jewish people arguing against them

point out that the word “

almah

” doesn't mean a virgin but a young girl.

However, the   Jewish commentary, the

Even Ezra

explains, “It is

probable that it means virgin or a girl who has had sex,” i.e., either one is

equally likely. [Besides that, one could always answer from the verse in Genesis

that the Sons of God came in unto the daughters of man and they gave birth.]

·

One

important proof of Jesus is very simple. If physics would teach people to be

good and those that learned it would be not good then we would have a question

about its validity. But now that it teaches about physical reactions and those

reactions occur as it predicts, then we have no question. Now, since the Talmud

teaches people to be good and the people that learn it are not good, we have a

question about its validity. To throw it out is not possible since the Bible

itself says that the rabbis alone have the authority to interpret it. Thus, we

have to figure out what is wrong with the Talmud.

Many

solutions have been offered. As we see in Israel, none work. Based on every

solution that is offered there is a yeshiva/s built on that principle. None of

the results of those solutions come out particularly better or worse than

anyone else. Jesus is left as the only viable option who has had success for

2000 years of inspiring countless hospitals, orphanages etc, and taming violent

civilizations and people.

·

To a

degree,  it is possible to accept the idea of the Trinity [since it is the job

of every person to be one with God and we assume a true saint has succeeded in

that job].

Thus,

Christ was the infinite God coming into finite limits in order that finite man

could have some concept of God. This is the reason for the manifestation of God

in all the places in the bible [like the Temple, or at Mount Sinai, or by an

angel], where he limits himself in time and space.

This is

to give the human mind the ability to expand. The human nefesh [life force] can

receive the light of God on the level of faith [alpha 0, the first type of

infinity]. The spirit can receive the light of beauty [alpha 1, the second

infinity]. Jesus was to allow the second infinity to permeate the consciousness

of Man. Rabbi Nachman is for the soul to receive the light of the next type of

infinity, Understanding.

[IMAGE: image055.jpg]

