
Section V - Christianity

Chapter 1 – Jesus Christ

·

The

argument against Jesus is primarily based on the references in the Talmud

against a certain Yeshu which was a common name at the time and the book “Seder

Olam” refers to three Jesus's that lived at that time, and one that lived at

the beginning on the second temple period who was the disciple of Rabbi

Yehoshua Ben Chananya. Historically, there was a famous Jesus also at the

actual time of the Destruction of the Temple that used to walk around the city

of Jerusalem predicting it's doom. The Tikunai Zohar also has a reference

against Jesus. However, in all fairness it seems likely that the Zohar and the

Gemara were in fact referring to Jesus and in fact didn't like him.

·

Rabbenu

Asher (the Rosh) writes at the end of Gittin that the Jesus mentioned there is

not Jesus Christ. To say that the other places where that same person is

mentioned in the Talmud are him would require a proof, of which there is none.

In fact, the facts of the life of Jesus have been corroborated by at least 60 non-Christian

documents, and none of the stories of the Talmud about Yeshu fit any of the

facts about Jesus we are forced to admit that the Yeshu of the Talmud is not

Jesus Christ, rather someone else at the beginning of the 2

nd

-Temple

period who was a disciple of Rabbi Yehoshua Ben Perachiya, as the Talmud says,

while Jesus Christ of Nazareth was born 400 years later.

·

According

to Rabbi Avraham Abulafia, Jesus is the Messiah son of Joseph -- a preliminary

stage before the Messiah son of David, i.e., the sephirah of Foundation. The

concept of a messiah from Efraim is brought in the Gemarah Zohar, especially in

the works of Rabbi Moshe Chayim Lutzato, and the Gra in Kol Hator (i.e., the

sephirah of Foundation). (He [Rabbi Abulafia] also says things about the cross

which would imply that Jesus didn't lose his high level of Messiah son of

Joseph any time. Yet, he also says the verse “you shouldn't have a false god”

applies to Jesus -- meaning that the church after him did fall into idolatry.)

What is

significant about the opinion of Rabbi Abulafia is that all the major

kabbalists accept him as an authority. Rabbi Chayim Vital quotes him

extensively in vol. 4 of Shaarai Kedusha, and Rabbi Moshe Cordovaro quotes his

books all throughout the Pardes. The Chida (Rabbi Chayim David Azulai) has a

section on him in Shemos Hagedolim, and concludes that he was in fact a great

saint). (The fact that Rabbi Abulafia did write this about Jesus is easy to see

for anyone who wants to take the time to go to the basement of the national

library at Hebrew University and look at the microfilm copies of his books.

(Professor
