
1.

Egypt under Ptolemy Soter.

2.

The Indian territories and part of Afghanistan which were given to

an Indian ruler in

return for military help.

3.

The Seleucid Empire

.

4.

Macedon.

This

would imply that the next few verses would be referring to Jesus who was in

fact at the latter time of the Greek Kingdom, after the Greeks were protected

and freed by Roman decree [so at least they could be described as a kingdom if

not an empire].

The

verses later in Daniel 11 say openly that a messiah would arise during the

empire that comes after the fall of the Greek empire and that could only be the

Roman empire. The Talmud also says that the Messiah would come only when the

Roman empire would spread over the whole world. Since the Talmud also says

about Achashvairosh that his empire spread over the entire world would mean the

whole known world at that time, this would imply that the messiah came when the

Roman Empire was at its peak, not necessarily over the whole world, but the

whole ‘known world’ at that time, which was during the rule of  Tiberius, when

the Roman Empire reached its peak.

The Roman

Catholic Church isn't the equivalent of the Roman Empire, since it existed at

the time the Talmud was written, and if the Talmud had meant the church it

wouldn't have written ‘the government’ [‘Malchus Romi’, which translated means

the government of Rome].

The whole

story there in Daniel 11 seems to be clearly talking about Julius Caesar and

Cleopatra, as has been noted before by the Jewish commentaries. And then, “AT

THAT TIME”, the redemption comes. So it seems we have to conclude that the

particular messiah it is referring to is Jesus, as Rabbi Abulafia already

concluded in his kabbalistic way. [Daniel 9 also says that the messiah would

come during the second temple period.]

·

Faith in

any saint has to be with understanding the true position and spiritual level of

that saint. Otherwise, it is possible to fall from that faith. Therefore it is

important to understand the place that Jesus takes amongst the other saints,

and not to make it to seem that he was the only one that ever existed. This

doesn't contradict the idea of the Trinity. It merely puts it into perspective.

·<???>
