
Moshe Aidel has written and published extensively about Rabbi Abulafia.) (The

Halachah in the long run will turn out to be that since the validity of Jesus

is a debate among the Rishonim (authorities of the Middle Ages) either

accepting him or not is valid according to the Torah rules, and neither one way

or the other can be excluded from valid Judaism. (It would be pretty hard to

exclude Rabbi Chayim Vital from valid Judaism after he has made his way into

the Shulchan Aruch and the Mishna Berura. In fact, the authorities in the

Shulchan Aruch sometimes hold an opinion, but then write that after they found

out that the Kabbalah said differently, they withdraw it, for “who can go after

the lion?”).

·

Rabbi Abulafia's

idea is crystal clear. In a nutshell it is that Jesus was a prelude to the

redemption. For, at the original breaking of the spiritual vessels of

nekudim

the vessel of the sephirah of Foundation (Jesus) broke because of the light

coming into it from the higher sephirot -- which couldn't contain the light.

After it fell with all the other broken vessels into the creation, God fixed it

and brought it up to Emanation (its original place), and God strengthened it

and gave it power to contain the light of Kindness. Therefore, Jesus being

united with the trait of Foundation and containing the light of Kindness is a

kind of pipeline for the light of Kindness to be drawn into the world.

·

This is

different from Messiah of David who is united with the Trait of Royalty and has

a different job in the world, the completion of the process. This idea of Jesus

is in conformity with the New Testament, but is very different from the

Christian idea of Jesus. Their idea of Jesus being a second giving of the Torah

seems to be totally alien to Torah theology, however Rabbi Judah Ha Levi wrote

in “the Kuzari” that both Christianity and Islam will share in the messianic

benefits as branches of Judaism and were foretold in Ezekiel 37:17. The Rambam

goes even further and says that Christianity and Islam spread the words of the

Torah and “the law of truth” over the whole world. The amazing thing is to see

how many of the major halachic authorities wrote along these same lines: Rabbenu

Gershom, Rashi, the Rashba, Rav Sheshet [in Tosphot], the Beit Joseph, the

Rema, and Rabbi Yakov Emden. [Rabbi Yaakov Emden calls Christianity the “part”

of the Torah given to the non-Jew.]

·

At the

time of the breaking of the vessels the

sefirah

of Foundation (of

Akudim) fell into the world of Creation. And then God brought it back into the

world of Emanation and drew into it the light of Kindness.

Therefore,

Jesus being unified with the trait of Foundation had in him the light of
