
kindness. But he was not a prophet, since he never claimed to have prophecy and

never said, “Thus sayeth the Lord”. A prophet is connected to Victory or

Splendor not to Foundation or Royalty like Messiah of Joseph or David.

·

Rabbi

Moshe Chayim Lutzato in the Ginzei Haramchal, (pg. 246) seems to be referring

to the aspect of the fall of Jesus to which Rabbi Abulafia also refers in which

Jesus, became the subject of idol-worship of the church until the Reformation

of Martin Luther.

·

That part

of the soul of Jesus (the lowest of the 4 parts) may very well have been in

hell until the time Rabbi Chayim Vital saw him rise from hell. This is like

part of the soul of Samuel which Saul spoke with.

·

It is

possible that Rabbi Abulafia is of the same opinion as Rabbi Moshe Chayim

Lutzato that Jesus fell into the evil

kelipot

and that the Gemarahs

about “that person” in fact refer to Jesus. That is the job of every righteous

person to go into the klipot and to rise therefrom, so that by his rising he

should bring all the sparks of holiness that have fallen there up with him. It

is odd the Jews and Christians agree that Jesus went into hell. Their

disagreement is on the duration of his visit and the purpose of it. They both

are looking at the same event, but from different perspectives.

·

The Sages

must have seen Jesus going into a black hole which led to the separate universe

of the Christians and never saw him arrive — just suspended in space but from

the perspective of Jesus he went in and came out of the white hole on the other

side.

·

The root

of Jesus is in the circular sephirot, therefore he is usually only accepted by

non-Jews whose roots are also there. That is why Jesus is considered bad by

Jews whose root is in the straight sepherot, for when they look at him they see

him in an area which, relative to their position in the empty space is the

klipot, but from the aspect of the circular sephirot it's the highest degree of

holiness.

·

Since

Jesus was from Joseph his holiness is hidden, “as the fish in the sea” (the

blessing given to Joseph) — and therefore the Sages of the Talmud didn't

recognize his greatness. We find that Rabbi Akiva thought Bar Kochba was the

Messiah, and he endorsed him. We find many places were the Sages admit their
