
fallibility. I don't see why we should attribute to them something they didn't

hold applied to them. (In fact, we see in the incident of Rabbi Eliezer that

they didn't care if God himself held differently than them. Their job, as the

saw it was to decide the law based on the majority opinion —whether that opinion

was right or wrong just didn't matter.

Yet,

according to the Torah the majority opinion can be wrong (Leviticus 4:13)

[14]

: which, according to the Talmud in

Shavuot is referring to the Sanhedrin of 71 elders permitting accidentally one

of the 36 types of sin that involve being cut off. So the majority is the way

to decide the law, not the way to discover truth.) The Talmud is a record of

the Oral Law as it was discussed and debated at that time. The Sages don't need

to be infallible in order to be deep and important just like Newton's Theory of

gravitation was deep and fruitful even though it wasn't correct --but a

necessary stage of development.

·

We need

to look at the New Testament and the Gemarah with historical retrospect and

care, but also with respect. The 57 or so New Testament documents dug up in

Egypt don't disagree on the basic facts of the life and teachings of Jesus.

When we do this, a very clear picture of the Christian sect just being another

sect besides the Scribes, Prushim (Pharisees) and Essences arises, who all had

conflicting philosophies but were all equally committed to the Oral and Written

Law.

·

Now, to

find the spiritual root of the argument between Sages of the Talmud and the

Christians, since the universes of the Jews and the Gentiles are connected by a

black hole, the Sages saw Jesus fall into the black hole, but remain on the

event horizon — while from the point of view of Jesus and the gentiles, that's

when he entered their space and the time of their correction began. Before that,

Jesus simply could have gone back in time as in the Feynman diagram.

You could

conceivably have several manifestations of a tzadik (saint) at any one time,

the one coming back (the 2nd coming is a constant process), and another that

has already returned and going about preaching (as poor man and as the son of

God coming on the wings of Heaven) (even conceivably as a good and bad one that

meet at the bottom of the “v”and 8 each other and the soul of the tzadik-saint

coming back through time losing entropy and the body going forward in time and

their meeting and disappearing into pure energy, and then in that form transversing

the realm of space-time until actually entering the black hole and disappearing

from the Jewish scene, …so in essence I'm saying the dispute between the

Christians and the Jews for the last 2000 years has been due to a lack of

imagination). This is also how its possible for many people to have the level

of Messiah the Son of Joseph through the soul of Jesus or the sparks of his
