
Section III - Politics

Chapter 1 – Politics and the

Torah

“Without

true virtue, God is just a word.” [Plotinus II:9]

“They make

merchandise out of you.” [Peter II]

·

Because

some people believe their purpose in life is to have pleasure, the Torah wanted

to take the major body of the Torah government out of their hands, [the

judicial branch the local, the circuit and supreme courts, and the police] and

put it into the hands of the intellectuals [Aristotle's politically minded

people], that is people that had

semicha

[rabbi from rabbi up to Moses]

so that in no way could the whims of the general people decide who should be a

rabbi. This, of course, is no guarantee, since people always get the

government, they deserve, and the intellectuals aren't going to be all that

much better or worse than the regular populace.

However,

a little bit better it does remain. The way, however, that it ensures that the

rabbis don't become a self-serving bureaucracy is by the ability of the people

to choose the king who is in control of the military.

The

reason why the Torah does give some power to the people even though they see

pleasure as being the purpose of their lives is that pleasure is a guide to

correct conduct. It isn't a goal, but it is a guide to the actions that God

considers correct. But it only comes into the category of good if it is done

for the sake of God.

·

Politics

and religion are closely related, for we find that before the Edict of

Toleration, only 10% of Romans were Christian, but within a few years after

that, the vast majority became Christian. This is one reason why rabbis and

priests guard their power so closely - it really is for the sake of God- to

keep people religious. But the externalization of religion is the death of

inner religion and piety so the Torah limits the laws that can be imposed on

people and essentially takes religion out of the hands of man and sets up the

rabbis only to clarify points of the law about which some doubt arises and

judges and police to enforce the law. In essence the Torah is the constitution,

and the Sanhedrin is to interpret the Torah but not to change it.

·

The

argument of Rousseau and John Locke is dependent on the two worlds of chaos and

correction. Locke has individual rights reigning supreme and Rousseau the

general good. The root of their disagreement is in the worlds of

tohu

and

tikun

[chaos and correction]. A synthesis of their idea would be to

bring the vessels of correction and the light of chaos together so that

individual rights can be contained in the outside order.  However individual

rights or public good have absolutely no weight in Torah thought, whether the written

or Oral Law. You may find some hint here or there, but these are not Torah

ideas. The Torah has only one idea: Serve God and keep his laws and if you

serve other gods then woe is to you. However, implicit in Torah thought is the

idea that you cannot add to the laws which implies that no man can impose

further restrictions than what is already given once in the Torah, and which

will never change

·

The

system of the Torah is not centralized system. The Sanhedrin at the time was

only to decide cases of law where the litigants came to them. The king was to

guard the borders and fight the wars. The kings of Israel were heads of the

army, not judges to teach, lay down or enforce the law. Just like today the

president is the head of the armed forces (the limits to the power of a King

are a subject of debate in the

Gemarah

). [To one opinion in the

Gemara

there is no commandment to have a King at all. The Torah only says, “when you

will ask for a King.” It doesn't say you should do so.

·

Rabbi

Meir from Rotenburg the rabbi (teacher) of the

Rosh

said, “No law could

apply to a community unless the community accepted it first.” The Talmud says,

God told Moses that one can't appoint a leader over a community unless one

first asks the community. That was a case where God and Moses both knew the right

person. Thus, we find some idea of democracy in the Talmud (even though the

idea was that what the people thought mattered but that they wouldn't accept

the leader even if God said to unless they were asked first). But I must point

out the

Sanhedrin

wasn't voted on. They received

semichah

from a

rebbi who received it before them, who received it before them, etc., until

Moses. (Today there is no

semichah

.) The actual amount of power given to

the king is a debate in

Mesechet Sanhedrin

. In one opinion he has very

little power and in another he is a real monarch. And the King is chosen by a

prophet or the Sanhedrin. So, Democracy seems to have no root from the Torah.

And this is amazing, since the Torah does deal with social and political and

civil issues.

·

So, in

conclusion freedom within Biblical Law is an important principle of the Bible

and the Oral Law -- not democracy. The Torah allows the Jewish people to choose

any type of king or government it wants, in any way it wants. All that matters

to the Torah is the fulfillment of the mitzvot; it really doesn't care what

type of government there is. It is well borne out by history that every form of

government has had periods in reigns of terror and periods in freedom. The

government will never be better than the people of the country.

I think the

Torah ignores the question of the form of government because it felt that it is

irrelevant. All that really matters is whether a particular group of people

have a desire to be formed into a body-politic or a commonwealth. If they do,

then whatever form of government, they chose is ok as long as the laws of the Torah

are kept. Theoretically, this could be even a Democracy since the Rambam says

the people of each town chose their representative to send to the Sanhedrin,

and this could have been done by a vote while the act of ordination [semicha] could

have been a final formality.

·

The

political laws of the Torah are statistical laws based on the normal

distribution of a large number of people. So, the law of voluntary war is that

non-Jewish nations will subject Israel or be subjected by Israel as is the case

with all nations, there always has to be one that imposes its will on the

others or there is chaos and constant war.

·

It is

interesting to note that the laws of the Bible deal mainly with Temple, the

prohibition of idols, and civil law. According to the Bible, there are only

relativity few religious things which one should do like Shabbat and

tefilin

.

I know that's not the same thing as freedom of religion but it’s a lot

different than religious intolerance in orthodox communities today or in

history (light only flows within the vessels of the sephirot when it is

unconstricted, not when it’s frozen in some frigid environment of fear, or when

constricted into some unnatural form. The Torah gives certain boundary

conditions, but besides that, “Thou shalt not add or subtract”.

·

Therefore,

the Torah provided a system that point's up, yet would give them an enormous

amount of freedom (within the basic political structure) for each individual to

decide for himself how to get there. Societies where there was tremendous

intellectual growth were not religiously or politically free societies. The

Renaissance which existed and flourished in Italy a hundred years before it

even reached the rest of Europe took place in a society of political intrigue

and Papal rule. Mozart lived under the reign of Fredrick II. Socrates did

pretty well in Athens for all his 90 years or so until it got to be a democracy

and they killed him (Freedom and tolerance are important but have little to do

with the type of government, rather with the type of people of the society.)

Authoritarian rule can be rational if it is to cause the growth of the people.

Revolution is justified only when the rule is not for the benefit of the

people, but not because of the type of government.

·

Shmuel

said, “there is no difference between this world and the days of the Messiah

except for subjection by governments.” This seemed to have started at least

with the concept of the Magna Carta. This is

the

beginning of the 6th

thousand-year period which is when the

Zohar

says the process of the

redemption will start, going every 60 years up to a higher level (now this

statement of Shmuel is the subject an argument in the

Gemarah:

Rabbi

Yochanan said the prophecies of all the prophets apply to the days of the

Messiah, the Rambam brings both so he seems also to be saying that the

redemption is a process that takes place over a long period of time and rising

from level to level.)

·

Now a

democracy really shouldn't be any different than any tyranny for the masses can

be just as evil as any dictator, however statistically speaking a large body of

people aren't going to be too far from the mean (average value), so generally a

democracy won't be too good or too bad (as long as one individual doesn't seize

power), while any other form will vary according to who is the king at that

time.

Therefore,

one can ask why doesn't the Torah require a Democratic form of government? The

answer is that the people did in fact choose their own king, for the Torah

addresses the Jewish people as a whole “place upon you a king”, and the idea of

the prophet or the Sanhedrin deciding was the way the people decided. (The

Torah doesn't specify the way to pick and just leaves it up to the people

themselves. And this is the smartest thing because it really doesn't make any

difference. People get the type of government they deserve and the kind of life

they deserve and the kind of spouse they deserve.) [The way the people decided

who would be king is by the Sanhedrin or the prophet. Either way was

acceptable.]

·

Every

utopia has failed. From “The City of God” of Saint Augustine and the “Utopia”

of Thomas Moore and Plato's “Republic”. Zionism which assumed that since the

Jews were financially successful in foreign lands, they would be all the more

so in their even failed since Israel exists on the money of American Jews. Even

the Democracy in the U.S.A. is becoming increasingly totalitarian in nature.

The answer is the Baal Ha Tanyas idea which is really from the kabbalah, but

the Baal Ha Tanya shows how to use it. We need chaos and order together, i.e.,

we need the light of chaos in the vessels of order, freedom in an ordered

society and inter­connected world. This can only be with Jews who have the

power of combining opposites. Yet freedom must exist because every person has

his own higher roots that they must adhere to but only within the vessels of

order. The only system that has a chance of working is an integrated system.

The Torah system could have worked by itself (for the Jewish people) until many

of its secrets fell into scattered places. Even the written law was only given

on the physical level and is the garment of the inner-Torah. And the laws of

the Torah are the body of the Torah. But only the Soul of the Torah is the real

Torah. So even though the written law is perfect, the deeper philosophical

political and esoteric, and scientific ways of understanding of it have been

forgotten and lost (as the Rambam has already stated in reference to the

philosophical and scientific secrets of the Torah).

·

The

underlying principle of the Torah is kindness and justice. There always has to

be one country imposing its polices on everyone else for there not to be chaos.

The idea of the Torah was to have that country be Israel in order that the

polices should be civilized. If in fact the state of Israel would be in the

place of America today, its polices would in fact be even more tolerant and

civilized than America. So, gentiles believing in the Bible come into the

category of “Thou shalt love thy neighbor like thyself”— the sages say that

this means “people that are with you in Torah and commandments”. Many Sages

said that the gentiles become a part of the body of the Jewish people by their

acceptance of the Bible [i.e., Christianity and Islam]. This may seem forced,

but without this idea, the Torah, Talmud and Shulchan Aruch are definitely

fascist. [However, if Islam today wouldn't be a sworn enemy of the Jewish

people, it would revert back to being a branch of the Judaism and it would be a

commandment to love Muslims.]

·

The

Rambam holds that one can accept a

ger toshav

From Amalek. Therefore, in

his opinion the seven commandments of Noach take even the Seven nations or

Amalek out of the category of Milchemet Mitzvah. Since the mitzvot of

obligatory war and non-obligatory war are

semuchim

[adjacent] they are

parallel. Therefore, the seven mitzvot take other nations out of the category

of non-obligatory war [to the Rambam]. This provides a different basis of

looking at non-Jews other than the accepted way. The accepted way however is

the opinion of the authorities brought in Shulchan Aruch. At any rate even to

the other authorities, taxation on other nations is a political necessity. One

nation in the world has to be the policeman.  The reason one state in America

isn't a threat to another is that the Federal government is over them all.

·

Freedom

is an implicit principle in the Torah for even if we accept the principle of

making a fence that the majority of the Sages held by the fence still has to be

around the laws themselves and not infringe on personal or public and

individual freedoms more than absolutely necessary for the continuance and

fulfillment of the Biblical laws. [and in fact, if the majority of the people

don't accept the rabbinical law it has no validity anyway which is why the oil

of non-Jews is permitted even though it was from the 18 rabbinical laws of

Hillel and Shamai.] In fact, the whole

baal tshuva

movement and the

orthodox Judaism of today are really just escapes from freedom. For modern man

in general is terrified of freedom and so within the disguise of the Torah they

still have to make up more and more restrictions and justify it by pretending

that the Bible requires it. Now it is true that freedom per say is not an

important principle in the Torah, but the Torah has an idea much more powerful:

Don't add and don't subtract from these laws. So, with the giving of the Torah

God created the social national body of Jewry but took away from the government

the ability to impose its’ man made restrictions.

·

The

church in its inception felt they could take anything beautiful or good or true

in the pagan society they lived and incorporate it into their practice.

Throughout the centuries the church has adapted and incorporated many of the

customs of the people of the area it went into. The failure of the church to

adapt to the customs of India and China and learn from the many good traditions

they have, has defeated its progress there. Judaism has much to learn from

this. Rather than abandoning the basic principle of the Torah [belief in the

Oral and Written Law] as the alternative movements have done in Judaism, we

should keep the principles but also not be afraid to learn what is good and

beautiful from others.True Torah life can take root among all Jews, but it must

adapt to the sensitivities and nature of the people in each area and community.

Any attempt to impose the fascist Judaism of Brooklyn and the ultra-orthodox in

Israel on the rest of Jewry will fail.The Baal Shem Tov and his followers were

the last leaders to know this principle. [It so happens that they were saints

also, but in practical terms they also knew the need to adapt to the people and

see the higher spiritual root of each community they were in. Many of the

customs they explained the higher spiritual significance of were indigenous to

those communities and not customs carved in stone for all people everywhere.

This was the attitude of the rabbis of the Talmud also. However, those were

unique times for in general God has promised the Jewish people that   their

rabbis and leaders would be evil and misguide them. Thus, rabbi Yochanan cried

every time he came to that verse that said this and he said a servant whose

master has promised to misguide him what hope is there for him. I, however, can

answer this. Ignore the rabbis and do rather what you know the Torah to be

saying.

·

One could

ask, “Isn't the Torah the exact equivalent of fascism?” Isn't its stated aim to

achieve world dominion and to enslave all the nations of the world to the

Jewish nation and to kill all Jews that don't keep the Torah as they do and all

nations that don't submit to their rule?

The

answer would be to this, that the European nations are actually from the ten

tribes, and the rest of the world, in as far as they accept Christianity or

Islam, come into the category of Gerei Toshav [semi-converts] and the Torah

obviously isn't saying to enslave them since there is an explicit command to

make sure they are provided for, i.e. if they have enough for themselves — fine,

and if not, you are required to give them charity. Incidentally, a Ger Toshav

according to one opinion in Mesechet Gerim, is someone who accepts on

themselves not to do idolatry [which, as I have mentioned, includes even the

Catholic church — according to the Rashba and the Meiri — since they aren't

worshiping the statues but using them to concentrate on the souls of the saints

they represent, and ask them to pray for them, or for their blessing which the

Sages say is permitted and in fact said that a person that has a sick person at

home must go to the sage of his city to ask him to pray for him.]

Only with

regard to idolatrous nations does the Torah say to conquer or be conquered.

This explanation doesn't help King David however, for he went to conquer for

profit, but I do have an explanation of King David i.e., that he said go

conquer a “troop”, i.e., people that were going to pillage. [I believe this is

a very important new thought. However, this isn't to all authorities as we see

in the Shulchan Aruch. But this answer is in accordance with the spirit of the

Rambam who puts Goyim that are scientists and philosophers on a higher level

than the Jewish people and he wouldn't agree with going around killing and

pillaging the goyim and taking those who surrender for slaves and tribute.]

·

The exact

difference between Rabbi Nachman and the Medieval Authorities of the Torah is

the same as the Difference between Martin Luther and the Catholic Church.

To Rabbi

Nachman and Martin Luther salvation is dependent completely on faith, and in

particular faith in some saint. However, in the Catholic faith and to the

Rambam we find the affirmation of man's dignity and the belief that man could

aspire to be like God based on his own efforts.

Yet, I

would like to suggest that Rabbi Nachman is a bit different than Luther since Luther's

idea of faith was negative -- it was a reaction against doubt rooted in his negative

feeling about life. Rabbi Nachman's idea of faith was an expression of oneness

with the Creator and affirmation of Life. It is faith in God as He is

manifested in one's own heart.

This is

the reason Rabbi Nachman's doctrine doesn't lend itself to authoritarians that

want to claim to be his representatives. However, Martin Luther is responsible

for the idea of the importance of every person as an individual, not as part of

a group, and no one but him can claim authorship of that idea.

·

Freedom

from tyranny of another nation was the original redemption from Egypt. Then,

only freedom from another nation constituted redemption. There never was a

concept of freedom from your own king until 1215. The Magna Carta, which was 25

years before the year 5000 in the Jewish calendar -- when the 2

nd

redemption started -- constitutes freedom in such a way that even the

government of your own country can't infringe on your freedom.

The idea

of freedom of the individual arose only at the time of Martin Luther. [Later I

noticed that Hegel also saw history as progress towards freedom]. The

Redemption is from the

sepherah

of

Binah

understanding and the

more the light of this sepherah is revealed in the world the more redemption

there is since “all freedom comes from Understanding”

Yet the

Sages also said “judgements are awoken from Understanding”. So, freedom has

brought a price with it. For in the Middle Ages there was a large degree of

security for the individual. There were the guilds [unions] which provided

steady work. The financial reality was local and personal and not based on

greed but on life and people. The real purpose of life was salvation. Greed was

one of the cardinal sins. This attitude affected how business was done. The

rise of the modern state and capitalism has created two types of people: 1) the

callous that has been born and bred to know that he has the face the world

alone and has little sympathy for anyone especially in business;2) the fearful

of this vast aloneness of the world and run into totalitarian systems to

provide them with emotional and financial support. This is the cause of fascism

and communism and the rise of the fundamentalist religions today orthodox

Judaism, fundamentalist Islam and Fundamentalist Christianity and the Eastern

cults. None of this has to do with an intellectual search for truth but for

security in an insecure world. Thus, whatever truth may have been in any or all

of these religions has been obliterated to make fundamentalist doctrines that

would feed the need of the people. The world today is a lonely place.

Friendships are for instrumentality. Love is another word for usefulness. My

only answer in this book is to stick with your family and true friends people

that you know have a true love for you. This is worth more than all theology

and even true religion and faith put together. I don't think we should go back

to the Middle Ages. This advice of mine is to provide true support in the world

that is lonely and insecure, and bypass authoritarian systems that will fail.

For in the long run Man won't give up his freedom and the all the cults like

Fundamentalist Islam or Orthodox Judaism will rise and fall like fascism.

[Freedom is a

need

of the human spirit, not a want] [Later I saw that

Hegel also saw the impossibility of return to the feudal system.] [Since the

redemption is the process of Understanding coming into the world the individual

becomes freer, has more problems, and the political entity enlarges from city

states, to a city that rules over an Empire [the Roman Empire]to feudal estates

joined by an informal alliance making an informal state to the age of the

formal state to the present age of informal globalization. Next, I suppose

would come formal globalization.

·

To assume

that people act in a certain way irrelevant of the doctrine they follow is

simply not true. The laws people believe in affect their character.

Statistically speaking if you measure people's prejudice before you pass a law

outlawing prejudice and then immediately after you pass the law you measure it

again, the amount of prejudice is found to be reduced significantly. So, if the

rabbis of the Talmud itself say all problems in the world come from the rabbis

of each generation and we see the doctrine they follow is that of the Talmud

itself, we know that something is missing in that doctrine that is needed to

make people righteous. The reason is as the Ari says that the laws are given

from the aspect of the Tree of Knowledge of good and evil, not from the aspect

of the Tree of life which is the Kabbalah.

·

The Orthodox

who excelled in piety in Poland, Slovakia and Rumania were wiped out. In

Rumania were the Jews of Transylvania who were ultra-orthodox, the Jews of Bukovina,

who were Chassidim and the Jews of Bessarabia, who were traditionalist, and the

Jews of Old Romany who were assimilated. They were all wiped out except for the

assimilated Jews of Old Romany, and all the non­religious Jews who didn't

listen to the rabbis and emigrated to America or became Zionists and went to

Israel. It has been said to me that the rebbes wanted their Chasidim to die

righteous in Europe and not unrighteous in America or Israel, but then why did

Rabbi Wasserman try to escape – it is only because the axle of his wagon broke that

he went back (as he said himself). Did the axle decide the halachah?!? First

the halachah was the Jews should live, and then the axle determined that they

should die? Some have tried to say that the Gerer Rebbe urged his chassidim to

leave, yet Rabbi Shimon Huberband wrote in the Warsaw Ghetto “The Rebbe of Ger,

like the majority of Polish rebbes, opposed settlement in the land of Israel.

If the Rebbe of Ger had ordered his chassidim, among whom were thousands of

very rich industrialists, to make Aliyah to

Eretz Israel

, the situation

of both the communities in Israel and in Poland would have been different”.

They killed European Jewry by the hopes they inspired in them. [The Sages of

the Talmud in fact say (Shabbat, page 139A) “If you see a generation in which

judgments have come upon it, go out and inspect the judges of Israel, for all

retributions that come into the world come because of the judges of Israel.” All

this should be enough to disprove the religious view that the Jews of Europe

were wiped out because they weren't religious enough. It would seem the opposite

is true.

·

We Learn from

Gödel’s second theorem that the only versions of formal number theory

which assert their own consistency are inconsistent. This is a general problem

for all humankind; for in fact how can anyone know if they themselves are sane?

Don't they have to use their own logic to figure that out, but how can they

trust their own logic if they are insane? Therefore, the majority of people are

used as a guide to what is sane. Yet see where the majority of people have

gotten us! The majority of people are selfish, cruel, and stupid. The world's

history is that of war, crime, violence, and cruelty. [And the psychologists

who determine what is normal behavior have the highest divorce rate of any

group in America.] [Also, I noticed something strange about those who go into

psychiatry. They are usually the particularly weird ones that have a need to

fit in. And invariably they are the ones that the studies in university are

done on. So, you have a neurotic group of people dictating to the rest of

humankind the standards of normal behavior and they have their studies on their

own neurotic group to back up their claims.]  Throughout history it has always

been the ones who refused to fit in that have contributed the ideas necessary

to making the world any better.

