
·

We have

come to the time Bertrand Russell feared, “When science has become venerable,

it will control our lives as much as religion has ever. I foresee the time when

all who care for the freedom of the human spirit will have to rebel against a

scientific tyranny.” - Marriage And Morals

,

Bertrand Russell.

However, this is to be taken in

context. There are many standard procedures in medicine and valid approaches in

psychology. These should be used.

The same

Rabbi Nachman who despised doctors, when the first vaccine came out, said “you

have to take your children even in the middle of the winter to the village

where they are giving the vaccine.” – The appendix of the Book of 13 stories.

The

general practice of Breslovers is to get three doctors opinions before any

major procedure. The criticism here is on the character of psychologists and

therefore automatically on their effectiveness.

·

John

Adams wrote in his diary on his trip to New York to convince them to sign the

Constitution, “I can't understand why everybody in New York is so nasty.” (This

was when it's total population was only about 10,000). There is an

extraordinary spirit of greed and anger in New York. It isn't reactionary

anger, but anger which is ever present and only waiting for an opportunity to

surface.

·

The

freedom of the media to enter a court room is the only thing to check the power

of judges in the USA. [In Hegel's ideal state also the court proceedings had to

be public.]

·

I find it

fascinating that everyone is worried about the moral issue of cloning. Already

it is banned in Europe and America (even before it exists). Angry letters into

the newspapers about scientists involved in cloning. Yet not a peep about

abortion. I can only conclude that, in the western mentality, to destroy life

is moral but to create life is immoral.

No wonder

this last century has been so bloody. In the 1960's the goal in life of the

majority of youth was to find a true life philosophy. Today it's to have money.

We are digressing backwards. War can't be too far away. The dislike today of

the scientists means that the connection between rulership and wisdom is gone

and therefore rulership has fallen into stupidity and when that happens things

tend to decay into chaos rapidly.
