
the middle for people to grow and develop, but problems arise when each side

assumes it’s a two person zero sum game, i.e., what one side wins the other

side loses. In that case the conflict creates a situation where both sides

lose. By cooperation both would increase the market for their ideas.

·

There are

two tendencies now:

One, is

the expansion of the political entity from state into a global state. But since

that spreads the power thinly there is an opposite tendency to contract the

political entity into ethnic religious groups and global corporations [economic

states]. The conflict between these two forces causes a pattern of chaos to

emerge. The second pattern is back to the Middle Ages when there was not

“state”, just loyalty to the Catholic church or to Islam in a general (but very

real way) and to one's particular landowner or feudal lord or prince. In the

U.S.A. the courts no longer judge by the constitution, but by who has more

money to buy a better lawyer - and juries now always decide along ethnic lines.

The

second way is because of peoples tremendous fear of freedom and the intense

emotional isolationism of today. Therefore, ideas of globalization which are

simply another form of colonialism can't apply in countries where the center of

mass is the ethnic principle like the countries of South East Asia. It is

likely that those countries will eventually confiscate the assets of American

and European investors.

·

Once the

light of enlightenment [Royalty] was in Israel, then it passed to ancient

Greece, then to Rome, and then to Europe. The light shone from Europe to

America. Now a civilized a nation is judged by how “Westernized” it is. That

light will return to Israel, but the light of foundation is specifically for

America.

·

To a

large degree America and Israel seem to me to be very religious countries. For

where there is freedom of religion, whatever religion or belief people have

will be real, while where it is forced, it won't be real. A little bit of the

real thing is much better than a lot of the wrong thing.

·

Freud

suggested that the unconscious was the real cause of behavior, and that moral

values were projections of the unconscious. Therefore, the idea of absolute

values, responsibility and rationality was a myth. This thinking still shapes

the minds of psychoanalysts and psychotherapists, and many have become

influenced by that point of view. This is I believe the reason for the decay of

values even among the pseudo religious that keep the rituals of each religion,

but in terms of real morality are quite lacking.
