Chapter 3 - THE U.S.A.

“Nothing in America is so painful as the lack of joy. Pleasure is

frantic and bacchanalian, a matter of momentary oblivion not of delighted

self-expression. Men sit throughout the day glued to their desks, amid

typewriters and telephone, serious, important and worthless.”

-Bertrand Russell

·

America

is becoming increasingly totalitarian. This could spell the beginning of the

end for it. I do believe however that there still is some hope for America.

There needs to be a balance between secular and religious forces, because if

either becomes the sole force we would have tyranny. And the worst thing would

be if they worked together. The best thing is if they both remain sworn enemies

of each other and hopefully that will leave an “empty space” in between for the

decent people. We need to safeguard the things modern democracy and capitalism

have accomplished in freedom for the individual. But we need to continue this

process by an integration with the Bible.

The

reason America is becoming a police state is that freedom is being confused

with the idea of protection of the rights of individuals. In a capitalistic

free-flowing society, there are basic patterns of flow like in an ant colony

where the free flow reinforces the caste system. When the government is

perceived as the way for one group of people to get the money of another group,

which they assume is their right, since they are the majority, the state

becomes a police state. All people are born equal — this means born with the

right to enjoy the fruits of their labor or intelligence. But it doesn't mean

born with the right to someone else's money. But today that is exactly what

Americans thinks. Therefore, America is doomed unless it goes back to its

Christian roots. Yet the decay of a nation and its values can be the rebirth of

something greater.

Perhaps

it is the idea of a religious democracy, in place of the secular democracy.

That is a democracy based on the majority rule, but with the Bible as its

constitution [AS in fact John Locke envisioned in the first place.]

Actually,

the problem of America is, as Hegel saw, that when any society gets to the

point of self-reflection it is at its peak and then must start the decay. Hegel

didn't know the reason for this, but I think it is from Gödel theorem. The

venerability of TNT is that it is capable of expressing statements about

itself.

Once

America saw the contradiction of the Bible and the principles of democracy it

felt it had to go in one direction or the other. But they didn't know that the

whole strength of America depended on that contradiction, not on one or the

other or both but the contradiction itself. [Perhaps this is the reason Rome

fell, they became totally religious, instead of the necessary combination of
