
everybody needs someone to talk to that won't be judgmental, will listen

without interrupting, and just render impartial advice as best they can, [that

is the reason there were Catholic priests]. The Devil couldn't destroy America

all by himself since he is only one angel, so he sent the

psycho therapists

to do his work for him.

·

There

can't be spiritual growth in New York, since the city is the root of the broken

vessels which don't connect with each other. Growth can only be in a friendly

atmosphere. You can be a saint in NY, but I don't think you can grow.

·

The

political chaos that ensues at the breakup of the family is what destroyed the

Roman Empire, Renaissance, Italy and, unless we wake up, America. The reason

for the breakup of the family is the erosion of the place of the father. What

could save it is to nullify the idea of separation church and state — which in

fact is not in the constitution. All it says is there shall not be a national

church. OK, then let each state choose its own State Church.

The only

countries in Europe that stood up to the Nazis were the ones that never had

division of church and state, as has been noted by others. In fact, the Jews

had a relatively good time in Germany for 2000 years until they threw out Jesus

in the 1800's. Einstein noted that only the churches in Germany stood up to the

Nazis, not the intellectuals, or the universities. [I assume he meant the

Lutheran churches, which were the ones that spoke against the Nazis as far as I

know.]

It has

been noted that the Pope of that time chose diplomacy over courage, but it has

been shown that he saved the Jews of Italy by choosing carefully with which

issues to confront the Nazis. Edith Stein was killed because the nuns of her

Catholic Church did in fact stand up to the Nazis. The run of the mill Lutheran

pastors talked against the Nazis then were threatened to be gassed and then

some kept talking until they were gassed, and others shut up. I wonder today

when millions of people were being wiped out in Rwanda, how many of you shed a

tear, or even barely noticed?

·

The

effect of the scientist on society isn't by what he says but by what people

think he says.

·

People

have always been killing each other for all types of reasons. It used to be

territory or plunder. Then for religion. Then for nationalism. Then for the

struggle between communism and democracy. If it won't be for one reason it will

be for another until the final redemption of mankind comes.

Anything

that matters a lot to people they will kill for. The only time people will stop

killing each other is when nothing makes any difference to them anymore.

Now, at

some point in our history religion mattered. However, religion hasn't mattered

to people for a long time. Now that secularism has lost it potency, religion

will again become the reason people do good or evil.
