Chapter 8 – The Redemption

“Is there any point to which you would wish to draw my

attention?”

“To the curious incident of the dog in the night-time.”

“The dog did nothing in the night-time.”

“That was the curious incident,” remarked Sherlock Holmes.

“Everything

is dependent on Kabbalah. Our lack of involvement with it causes the delay of

the building of the Temple.” “…and when we will repent on this and occupy

ourselves with this wisdom (Kabbalah), the Jewish people will be redeemed.”

(-Rabbi Chayim Vital in Introduction of the Eitz Chayim.) Rabbi Moshe Chayim

Lutzato writes along the same lines in the

Pri Eitz Chayim.

INTRODUCTION

The redemption

is one of the most painful subjects. All Israel expected the Messiah to come at

the end of the second Temple period and deliver them from the Romans. This was

correct to expect, since the prophets that predicted the destruction of the First

Temple clearly imply that when the Second would be built that the Messiah would

then come then, and that it would last forever. Well — that prediction proved

wrong.

Then,

after its destruction they were expecting Bar Kochba to deliver them — that

also didn't work. Then there were predictions in the

Gemara

that proposed

some dates within a hundred years. Then the First Authorities placed their

predictions for a hundred years after their time. Then, we got an assortment of

saints that tried to bring the

Geulah

themselves and all failed. Then,

Chabad got into the Messiah business and in fact made a lot of money doing so.

·

The

Messiah revealed the same idea to the Baal Shem Tov in his vision on Rosh

HaShanah when the Baal Shem Tov asked “when will you come?” He answered “By

this you will

know:

when your wells will overflow

and they will be able to do

unifications

and rise

to higher worlds like you, then will be a time of grace and salvation. “The

teachings of the Baal Shem Tov to a large degree are contained in the books of

his disciples. Rabbi Nachman never claimed that his teachings stemmed from them

but in fact Rabbi Nachman gives the handles by which it is possible for every

person to hold on to the lessons of the Baal Shem Tov.

The Baal

HaTanya created a different path which I consider to be valid but certainly not

related to Chasidut. For example, the Baal HaTanya

deemphasized

the importance of the “rebbi

”

which the Besht held was

essential. Also, the Besht gave the path of when one sees a beautiful girl to

raise the trait of

Beauty

to its higher root,

which the Baal Hatanya dismissed for people in general. The idea of “There is

nothing besides God” of the Baal Hatanya is also different from the Besht. To

the Besht it is like Shankara, i.e., literally nothing but God. Everything is

God. There is nothing but his infinite Light. But to the Baal Hatanya

everything is “as if it is nothing and nullified like a ray of light in the

sun.” There is a whole book in the Yeshivat HaKotel which goes further into the

discrepancy between the idea of the Oneness of God of the Besht and the Baal

Hatanya which I just skimmed over. What I wrote is from my own understanding of

this, but that book went much deeper. The other things I mentioned are in some

article in the Library of Hebrew University.]

·

Doing the

unifications of the Ari means to go to a quiet place and to concentrate on God

and his Divine names. It is the same idea as the meditation of the Bhagavad

Gita except that the Gita just talks about concentrating on the Oneness of God

while the unifications of the Ari give vessels to contain the light in.

·

However,

you may ask, doesn't this apply only to higher souls and people who have filled

themselves with the Talmud and legal authorities? Rabbi Chayim Vital writes in

the introduction to the Eitz Chayim, “The dull person who can't understand the

Talmud after having tried it should leave it and learn only Kabbalah,  however

a smart person is required for one or two hours a day to the study of Halacha

and to intend to answer the questions that fall upon the Halacha, and

afterwards he should intend to dress the bride - which is the Wisdom of the

Kabbalah.” The Ramchal writes along the same lines in his books. The age of

forty for Kabbalah isn't mentioned by any major authorities and only brought as

an anonymous “some people say” in the Shach. However, the Rambam does say to be

filled with Talmudic learning before learning Kabbalah which, the Shelah

HaKadosh says, means to fill yourself with Talmudic learning “that day”, before

you learn Kabbalah.

·

According

to Rabbi Chayim Vital, the redemption depends on Kabbalah (the secrets of the

Torah), not chasidut, not Musar, not Halacha, not Gemara, etc. Others have

different answers to bring the redemption. Nothing has helped and still the

redemption isn't here and still the sole and single advice of Rabbi Chayim

Vital isn't done. He wrote that 500 years ago and it's still not done. All the

Musar and Chassidus and Halacha haven't helped. Maybe Kabbalah is dangerous but

nothing else has done better. And still the one simple piece of advice of Rabbi

Chayim Vital isn't done - learn Kabbalah all day and the redemption will come.

If

we don’t it’s clear that the redemption won't come

(t

his section refers to the spiritual redemption not the

political one even though they are in fact closely related for no matter how

much political progress is made if it isn't coupled with God, it has little

worth as America is proving so well nowadays as it rapidly sinks into

totalitarianism).

As to the

idea of drawing the light of that coming period closer which problem is on the

mind of many, I have a few suggestions

:

1.)

In the book Heichal HaBracha it says the

author heard from a great Kabbalist that finding the Ark of the Covenant and

putting it in

its

proper place on the temple mount would bring the final

redemption immediately. The Ark is buried somewhere deep beneath the surface.

2.)

Rav Acha son of Rava said God will renew this

world after the year 5000 (

i

n the Hebrew calendar)

,

i.e., 1240 A.D. (Sanhedrin 97b). (Rabbi A. Abulafia

was born Rosh HaShanah of that year) (Khan took Kiev that year and was well on

his way to severely shake up all Christendom and the Islamic empires and China.

His progress was halted in (of all places) the land of Israel!

It is interesting to note that the Rambam writes that

prophecy would be restored to Israel at that time. It seems to me that Rav Acha

was referring to the emergence of the Renaissance and the Kabbalah at that period.

3.)

Rabbi Eliezer said the days of the Messiah

will be 40 years (Sanhedrin 99a). If we go by the 6000 year opinion that means

Messiah will come in the year 2200 AD., [about 200 years from now

].

4.)

Rabbi Chiya son of Aba said in the name of

Rabbi Yochanan, “all the prophets prophesied only for the days of the Messiah,

but as for the next world no

‘

eye has seen it

’

, and this disagrees with Shmuel for Shmuel said

, “

there is no difference between this world and the days of

the messiah except for enslavement of Israel to the nations.” Shmuel is saying

that all the prophecies of the Bible about the days of the Messiah are

referring to the time of the revival of the dead and don

’

t refer to this world at all at any point. [That is the

same spiritual realm where the stories of Rabbah Bar Bar Chanah took place.]

This

is clearly the intention of the Gemara which says that Rabbi Yochanan and

Shmuel disagree. This would mean that the Temple and the gathering of the

exiles all refer to the higher realm. This would correspond the prophecies of

Yechezkeil that the return from the Babylonian exile was the final redemption

and that in the higher spiritual plane there already exists the Temple and all

the souls of Israel are in the higher land of Israel. This would answer the

question on Rav Hillel for the prophecies that took place after Hezkia the King

were referring to the higher world. This would explain the Zohar that the Gates

of the Higher and Lower Wisdom would be opened up in the year 5600 (about 1840)

by which time all the major saints of the Jewish people were gone, e.g., Rabbi

Nachman, the Baal Hatanya, Rabbi Yaakov Abuchatzaira etc. Rather the intention

is that in this lower world the Gates of the Lower Wisdom and in the higher

world the gates of the Higher Wisdom would be opened up.

5.)

Rabbi Dosa said the days of the Messiah would

be 400 years which puts it at the year 1840, which is the beginning of the Age

of Invention.

6.)

Rabbi Yehuda HaNasi said, 365 years, which

puts it around the birth of Albert Einstein and Rabbi Israel Abuchatzera.

7.)

Rav Hillel says, “There will be no Messiah

for Israel, for they already enjoyed it [that period] in the days of Chezkia”

(Sanhedrin 99-A).

8.)

“The redemption of Israel will be like the

rising of the sun” [Midrash], i.e.

,

slowly but

surely, and during that period it gets so light that you think the sun will

rise in a minute when in reality it is still very far away. And by the time the

sun really is ready to rise it is already so bright that it is almost

irrelevant if you can see the sun or not. When the whole world will be filled

with the brightness and glory of God then I will know that messiah is

near

. Until then I will just have to wait.

·

Since in

every level of creation there are two Strange Loops

: o

ne that takes one up and the other that takes one down to

the lower level [like the double helix of the DNA],

thus,

to come to the redemption one needs to find the Strange

Loop for the present level. But the present level consists of ten sephirot.

For

instance

,

t

he religious level has this strange loop

that

t

he more you get into it the more you find it implies

Jesus, but Jesus in the

New

Testament said

things

contradictory

to

the

Torah, at least on the face of it. But then again, he said

keep the whole Torah with exactitude. This works for all saints also. Like

getting involved with the Gra or Rabbi Nachman will

inevitably

lead to self-contradictions. This may seem to lead in

circles but in fact they

lead

to the next

higher level.

