
person to hold on to the lessons of the Baal Shem Tov.

The Baal

HaTanya created a different path which I consider to be valid but certainly not

related to Chasidut. For example, the Baal HaTanya

deemphasized

the importance of the “rebbi

”

which the Besht held was

essential. Also, the Besht gave the path of when one sees a beautiful girl to

raise the trait of

Beauty

to its higher root,

which the Baal Hatanya dismissed for people in general. The idea of “There is

nothing besides God” of the Baal Hatanya is also different from the Besht. To

the Besht it is like Shankara, i.e., literally nothing but God. Everything is

God. There is nothing but his infinite Light. But to the Baal Hatanya

everything is “as if it is nothing and nullified like a ray of light in the

sun.” There is a whole book in the Yeshivat HaKotel which goes further into the

discrepancy between the idea of the Oneness of God of the Besht and the Baal

Hatanya which I just skimmed over. What I wrote is from my own understanding of

this, but that book went much deeper. The other things I mentioned are in some

article in the Library of Hebrew University.]

·

Doing the

unifications of the Ari means to go to a quiet place and to concentrate on God

and his Divine names. It is the same idea as the meditation of the Bhagavad

Gita except that the Gita just talks about concentrating on the Oneness of God

while the unifications of the Ari give vessels to contain the light in.

·

However,

you may ask, doesn't this apply only to higher souls and people who have filled

themselves with the Talmud and legal authorities? Rabbi Chayim Vital writes in

the introduction to the Eitz Chayim, “The dull person who can't understand the

Talmud after having tried it should leave it and learn only Kabbalah,  however

a smart person is required for one or two hours a day to the study of Halacha

and to intend to answer the questions that fall upon the Halacha, and

afterwards he should intend to dress the bride - which is the Wisdom of the

Kabbalah.” The Ramchal writes along the same lines in his books. The age of

forty for Kabbalah isn't mentioned by any major authorities and only brought as

an anonymous “some people say” in the Shach. However, the Rambam does say to be

filled with Talmudic learning before learning Kabbalah which, the Shelah

HaKadosh says, means to fill yourself with Talmudic learning “that day”, before

you learn Kabbalah.

·

According

to Rabbi Chayim Vital, the redemption depends on Kabbalah (the secrets of the
