Chapter 8 – The Redemption

“Is there any point to which you would wish to draw my

attention?”

“To the curious incident of the dog in the night-time.”

“The dog did nothing in the night-time.”

“That was the curious incident,” remarked Sherlock Holmes.

“Everything

is dependent on Kabbalah. Our lack of involvement with it causes the delay of

the building of the Temple.” “…and when we will repent on this and occupy

ourselves with this wisdom (Kabbalah), the Jewish people will be redeemed.”

(-Rabbi Chayim Vital in Introduction of the Eitz Chayim.) Rabbi Moshe Chayim

Lutzato writes along the same lines in the

Pri Eitz Chayim.

INTRODUCTION

The redemption

is one of the most painful subjects. All Israel expected the Messiah to come at

the end of the second Temple period and deliver them from the Romans. This was

correct to expect, since the prophets that predicted the destruction of the First

Temple clearly imply that when the Second would be built that the Messiah would

then come then, and that it would last forever. Well — that prediction proved

wrong.

Then,

after its destruction they were expecting Bar Kochba to deliver them — that

also didn't work. Then there were predictions in the

Gemara

that proposed

some dates within a hundred years. Then the First Authorities placed their

predictions for a hundred years after their time. Then, we got an assortment of

saints that tried to bring the

Geulah

themselves and all failed. Then,

Chabad got into the Messiah business and in fact made a lot of money doing so.

·

The

Messiah revealed the same idea to the Baal Shem Tov in his vision on Rosh

HaShanah when the Baal Shem Tov asked “when will you come?” He answered “By

this you will

know:

when your wells will overflow

and they will be able to do

unifications

and rise

to higher worlds like you, then will be a time of grace and salvation. “The

teachings of the Baal Shem Tov to a large degree are contained in the books of

his disciples. Rabbi Nachman never claimed that his teachings stemmed from them

but in fact Rabbi Nachman gives the handles by which it is possible for every
