
Rashi and Tospot but not the Rambam who requires three judges.

·

Many

times, one suffers because of one's mate. He should know that the suffering

would come upon him anyway even without the mate and therefore getting rid of

them won't help. It will only make things worse. But in a harsher form.

·

A Word to Women

A.

All men are either eccentric or evil. So, if

you notice your husband is bit different, be pleased you didn't get the other

type. This is because truth nowadays is afraid to show its face, so it hides

itself in weird personality traits. Evil isn't afraid of anything, so they seem

absolutely normal.

B.

Men usually cease to be men after they are

married and become “husbands”, so don't be surprised when it happens. As you

know, you put out a special effort to be nice during the dating dance, so does

he. Men, by nature, put out a tremendous amount of energy in the wooing

process, but after they are married that energy just doesn't exist. And a man

will always fall back on whatever he was in the first place with all the same

quirks and weaknesses that he strove to hide while he was wooing you… This is

not an act of deception any more than the mating dance of the bees. It's just a

part of nature.

·

But there

may be many right ones like Rachel and Leah where Leah wasn't really meant for

Yaakov, but still it worked out well because there was still a true connection.

But his real mate was Rachel. [Since true mate is a matter of percentage, one

person might be 20% a true-mate and another 50%. As Rabbi Nachman explains,

every person may have many people that are connected with him in this way.]

Though the Rambam apparently disagrees with the idea of a true mate, this idea

of percentages explains it.]

·

The

problem of not finding one's proper mate is the modern-day plague on the entire

world. Just like 55 years ago World War II was the plague of the world for no

known reason except an inexplicable judgement that came into the world, so

today judgement of never finding one’s proper mate has come into the world.

(This is how today people are punished for their sins from previous lives.) The

more sex is idolized the more the newspapers around the world are filled with

“personals” of women who can't find any men and men who can't find any woman.

The exception is only the very wicked who God rewards their few good deeds with

sexual pleasure in this world in order that they should have no reward in the

next. The other exception is the very righteous who sanctify themselves at the

time of sex in which case the sexual act becomes a part of their Divine
