
worship.

·

Men's

problem is with lust; women's, with anger; legalize a man's right to be married

to two wives and you solve both problems. Dividing responsibilities between two

women whether there sexual or maintaining a household would be easier. The man

won't be on their nerves the whole time asking for sex or needing to be waited

on after a hard day at work. While one woman is a

nidah

the other would

be available for sex. Why be stricter than the Bible? As the Sages of the

Talmud say, “There aren't enough things God has forbidden, that we have to find

more? If only we would just keep what is already there.”

·

“All is

confounded by all-mastering time; faith dies, distrust is born; and the same

spirit is never steadfast among friends; for be it soon or late, men find sweet

turn to bitter, and then once more to love.” - Sophocles.

So -

families should stick together through the ups and downs; they will come out in

the end on top. When entering into a marriage one must be totally committed to

making it work no matter what. But that isn't enough. You have to be aware of

how committed your partner is to you. If it isn't the same degree, then all

your commitment won't help. And if they are committed to things about you, but

not to you, it also won't work. The only thing that can make a marriage work is

that both parties have this commitment and the emotional ability to stick with

a commitment.

·

Those

that are devout are attached to the divine trait of Ru

lership,

and

therefore there is a flow of children to them as Rabbi Nachman explains in the

Lekutai Morahan. That is the meaning of the statement of the Sages that the

redemption won't come until all the souls in “spiritual storehouse of souls”

will be born, which according to Rabbi Issaac Luria refers to the

Tree of

Knowledge of Good and Evil

which is the Divine trait of Ru

lership (

this

is the reason Rabbi Eliyahu from Vilna said that allowing two wives would

hasten the redemption).

·

“Love is the most

powerful force in the world.” -- James Cameron
