
Human

emotions are the most powerful forces bending and breaking and building

societies, philosophies, ideas, creating and destroying worlds, spiritual and

physical. But of all the emotions, love is the most powerful, the highest of

the seven lower sephirot (forces), but lower than the three higher ones

(fields).

·

At the

time of the revival of the dead they and all those who are supposed to be

together will be together - but that can only be accomplished by the readiness

to give up one's life for each other in this world. But

understanding

is

also on the level of self-sacrifice which shine upon those that love each

other; and that merit isn't just for them but for the correction of the whole

world - to create a better world at the time of the revival of the dead so that

all loved ones will be able to be together forever in God's light in the

physical and spiritual world which will all be one at that time, in the world

that will be above time and space.

·

A deeper

way to understand marriage would be to apply it to the two sephirot of Beauty

and Royalty. But the Divine Presence has fallen into the klipot, so many women

end up marrying some

klipah

and bringing more klipot into the world

unless she can free herself from the evil side. This is the reason it is

imbedded in the nature of women to be attracted to money and power.

·

Marriage

in America is particularly unstable. One out of two or three (depending on the

area) break down. The Jewish orthodox community which came from Europe took a generation

to get “Americanized”, and now their ratio is quickly reaching the same level.

Curiously though, in Christian communities where the family attends church

regularly the ratio is 1 out of 40. In families where not only do they attend

church, but also have daily devotional life and family prayer the ratio is 1

out of 400. These are staggering statistics. While I'm at this I will mention

the other curious fact that the healthiest state in the USA is Utah. Now you

might want to say that it is because it is in a desert region; but Colorado is

the unhealthiest (and it is also in a desert region). The difference would seem

to be the difference between the Mormons and Las Vegas. These statistics

conform with the idea of Jesus being the Messiah of Joseph [foundation of

Emanation the source of peace], for it is a principle of the Torah that by

following a saint one is blessed.

·

There are
