Chapter 6 – Reward and

Punishment

·

Doing the

mitzvot

physically only brings physical blessing as the Torah says, “I

will give rain in its season”. Only doing the spiritual essence of the

mitzvot

brings spiritual blessing and enlightenment.

·

“Blest are they whose days have not tasted of evil. For when a

house hath once been shaken from heave, there the curse fails nevermore,

passing from life to life… by folly in speech, and frenzy at the heart. Evil

seems good to him whose mind the God draws to mischief; and but for the

briefest space doth he

fare

free of woe.” -

Sophocles in

Antigone

(i.e., any person with judgements upon them tends

to do evil things almost against their will just so that the evil judgements

will have something to come upon.)

·

Rabbi

Issac Luria says that the generations from Adam to Noah who were evil were

reborn at the time of the flood to receive their punishment in this world. They

were 600,000 root souls. The generations before the dispersion and the tower of

Babylon were those same souls and had sinned during that ten-generation period.

Similarly, the generations before the destruction of the 1

st

Temple.

And similarly, the generations before the Holocaust. And in the opinion of

Rabbi Luria even if one was sinful in a prior life, once born again, he won't

suffer for those sins if he lives properly. As the Zohar says about Job -- he

wouldn't have suffered if he had brought peace offerings (parts of which are

divided amongst the poor) instead of burnt offerings. This is even though he

was Terach (who was an idolator) in a previous life. And that is why Rabbi

Luria also says that he wouldn't have suffered if he had gone to Abraham to

learn the ways of loving kindness. If we go by the opinion of Rabbi Luria, we

will have to conclude that being religious isn't the same as being righteous

for Job was religious, but he wasn't concerned enough about the poor to be

righteous. In Hebrew, this is the difference between being righteous and being

a saint.

·

If you knew

all that you need then you wouldn't have free will. So, God makes sure you

don't. Your true character can be revealed only when you don't know all the

facts about your situation and how your actions affect events, and you must

decide anyway how to act. But when one correctly knows the situation then he

has no free will, and thus no reward and punishment and is just a clay in the

hands of the artisan. But still the revealing of the traits doesn't happen in

his way. And the free will was made for there to be the revealing of one's

character traits. However even those totally in

Yiddishkeit

or Jesus or

science, God seems to make sure that many things ever that are not known which

can easily be seen by others so that there should still be free will in these

things.

·

People's

impression that big things happen in their lives because of very small things

is true as the formula:

[IMAGE: image001.gif]

tells us, i.e., that a small

variation between certain numbers can cause substantial changes. But eventually

one comes down from the world of

chaos

into the world of probability

where things

average

out into a nice binomial

function - farther from the light but closer to the vessels that can hold

whatever light one may have.

·

The

reason there is suffering before each new level of wisdom is that the sephirot

of Akudim before they reach a higher level must turn their backs to face upward,

so the higher light comes through their backs. Then, as they reach the higher

level, they turn around again to face forward to us and there is a higher

revelation of light but during the time they were rising there was only the

backward light (red shifted).

·

There

have been people that accomplished great good in the world yet suffered

enormously as a result of it. This is because the higher light comes dressed in

judgements.

·

Nietzsche

held that according to the Bible, God saves the righteous, period. No ‘ifs’, ‘ands’

or ‘buts’. Yet I have a way of answering for the Sages. [The opinion of the

Sages is that God rewards those who have a majority [in quality] of sin with good

things in this world and punishes their sins in the next. This is to reward

them for their good deeds in a temporary world. The reason is because if they

are mainly sinful God gives them their main reward in the world which is the

main and most important, i.e., the next world. Those that have a majority of

good deeds God rewards them in the next world for their good deeds and punishes

them here for their bad deeds. Thus, one who is mainly good will suffer unless

he has no sin at all. Now this is certainly in accord with Genesis - but I

would like to say that it also goes along with the rest of the Torah. For, the

places in the Torah where it guarantees reward for good deeds is always in

plural and referring to the Jewish people as a whole. So, it only is saying if

the 51% of the people are good, then 51% will have good. They might be 49% of

the bad and 2% of the good who will have good. At any rate in this world the

evil people succeed and have money, children, and happiness. Yet, God gives

good to the righteous eventually by preserving them, even if it is in a lowly

way and by raising their horn [honor and happiness in the end.]

·

If the

majority of one's deeds are good, he is rewarded in the

Gan Eden

of

Earth by the light of God shining upon him here and punished for his bad deeds

in this life by bad events. If the majority of one's deeds are evil, he will be

punished in hell and here on Earth have physical comfort. However, for good

words one is rewarded in the lower Gan Eden and punished for his bad words in

this world if the majority of his words are good in quantity and quality. If

the majority are lies or evil talk, he is punished in hell and rewarded for his

good words here. If the majority of his thoughts and feelings are good, then he

is rewarded for them in the higher

Gan Eden

.

