Chapter 6 – Reward and

Punishment

·

Doing the

mitzvot

physically only brings physical blessing as the Torah says, “I

will give rain in its season”. Only doing the spiritual essence of the

mitzvot

brings spiritual blessing and enlightenment.

·

“Blest are they whose days have not tasted of evil. For when a

house hath once been shaken from heave, there the curse fails nevermore,

passing from life to life… by folly in speech, and frenzy at the heart. Evil

seems good to him whose mind the God draws to mischief; and but for the

briefest space doth he

fare

free of woe.” -

Sophocles in

Antigone

(i.e., any person with judgements upon them tends

to do evil things almost against their will just so that the evil judgements

will have something to come upon.)

·

Rabbi

Issac Luria says that the generations from Adam to Noah who were evil were

reborn at the time of the flood to receive their punishment in this world. They

were 600,000 root souls. The generations before the dispersion and the tower of

Babylon were those same souls and had sinned during that ten-generation period.

Similarly, the generations before the destruction of the 1

st

Temple.

And similarly, the generations before the Holocaust. And in the opinion of

Rabbi Luria even if one was sinful in a prior life, once born again, he won't

suffer for those sins if he lives properly. As the Zohar says about Job -- he

wouldn't have suffered if he had brought peace offerings (parts of which are

divided amongst the poor) instead of burnt offerings. This is even though he

was Terach (who was an idolator) in a previous life. And that is why Rabbi

Luria also says that he wouldn't have suffered if he had gone to Abraham to

learn the ways of loving kindness. If we go by the opinion of Rabbi Luria, we

will have to conclude that being religious isn't the same as being righteous

for Job was religious, but he wasn't concerned enough about the poor to be

righteous. In Hebrew, this is the difference between being righteous and being

a saint.

·

If you knew

all that you need then you wouldn't have free will. So, God makes sure you
