
don't. Your true character can be revealed only when you don't know all the

facts about your situation and how your actions affect events, and you must

decide anyway how to act. But when one correctly knows the situation then he

has no free will, and thus no reward and punishment and is just a clay in the

hands of the artisan. But still the revealing of the traits doesn't happen in

his way. And the free will was made for there to be the revealing of one's

character traits. However even those totally in

Yiddishkeit

or Jesus or

science, God seems to make sure that many things ever that are not known which

can easily be seen by others so that there should still be free will in these

things.

·

People's

impression that big things happen in their lives because of very small things

is true as the formula:

[IMAGE: image001.gif]

tells us, i.e., that a small

variation between certain numbers can cause substantial changes. But eventually

one comes down from the world of

chaos

into the world of probability

where things

average

out into a nice binomial

function - farther from the light but closer to the vessels that can hold

whatever light one may have.

·

The

reason there is suffering before each new level of wisdom is that the sephirot

of Akudim before they reach a higher level must turn their backs to face upward,

so the higher light comes through their backs. Then, as they reach the higher

level, they turn around again to face forward to us and there is a higher

revelation of light but during the time they were rising there was only the

backward light (red shifted).

·

There

have been people that accomplished great good in the world yet suffered

enormously as a result of it. This is because the higher light comes dressed in

judgements.

·

Nietzsche

held that according to the Bible, God saves the righteous, period. No ‘ifs’, ‘ands’

or ‘buts’. Yet I have a way of answering for the Sages. [The opinion of the

Sages is that God rewards those who have a majority [in quality] of sin with good

things in this world and punishes their sins in the next. This is to reward
