Chapter 2 - Christianity

·

Western

civilization grew on the ruins of the Roman Empire, since, according to Rabbi

Abulafia, the vertical part of the cross signifies Hebrew and the horizontal

part Latin and Greek. Therefore Christendom which had to contain all these

three elements in order to become Western civilization, is significantly

different than the rest of the world which remains in the Dark Ages until they

become westernized.

·

Christianity

just got too moral, and secularism just has got too immoral after Kant.

Nowadays, we base laws on science which are unproven and unfounded and only

barely out of the crib. Christianity has to first throw out all the laws of the

Bible, as Paul said to do. Then they have to make up their own morality.

Secularism first throws out the Bible, then logic and reason

as per Kant

.

Then they have to find their own things to fight like tobacco. (I would guess

that alcohol kills a lot more people on the road than tobacco but America found

out then the wise statement of Einstein, “You can't make illegal what people

are going to do anyway.”) I don't know the reason God forbade certain things in

the Bible and permitted others, but I suspect He knew what He was doing.

·

The path

to knowledge for the Jew and Christian has apparently taken the long and hard

paths. Getting out of religious thought and going to Aristotle and humanism

seems to have done much more for knowledge in general. Yet Jesus and Baba Sali

are also realities I must resort to the idea of drawing the light of the

circular sephirot (humanism) into the vessels of correction (Jewish people) Jewish

soul).

·

In the

opinion of the Meiri and the Rashba Christians aren't idol worshippers but in

the category of gerai toshav [proseleties of the gates] . In the opinion of

Rabbi Joseph Karo they are Gerai Hashaar (proselytes of the gate) which is on

even a higher level than gerai toshav (proselytes of dwelling who have legal

status and rights in Judaism though they aren't Jewish, since they keep the

seven Noaide laws) Rabbi Yaakov Emden writes “Christianity has been given to

the Gentile world by the Apostles as part of the Jewish religion and its

founder has made the moral laws stricter than those contained in the law of

Moses.”

·

Rabbi

Nachman said when one starts to come into the realm of holiness, judgements are

awoken against him. Thus, you could explain the problems Rome had after

accepting Jesus, from that aspect.

This

would also explain the problems the world had at each stage a new knowledge

came into the world, “He who increases knowledge, increases pain.” [Proverbs]

·

1666 was the year of the discovery of the Law

of Gravity of Issac Newton and simultaneously the year of plague in London.

·

Special and General Relativity;

·

World War I/II and Quantum Theory

·

The Renaissance and the plague.

·

The Kabbalah and the expulsion from Spain.

·

Chasidut and the Napoleonic wars.

This is

because each new development is the result of two opposites reacting together

so the new synthesis comes out a new and improved product. But, the residue of

this process is Judgements.

It seems

possible to predict from this —now that the world is coming to a new age of

consciousness that some Judgements also will be awoken.

In  a

different section I have written what I think may help, specifically the five

parshiot Rabbi Nachman said that help for this.

·

Jesus

emphasizes private prayer, loving all people — religious or not — emphasizing

kindness and righteous action. He sounds more like Socrates than the Pope. And

while I'm at it why not mention that these were the things the kabbalists

emphasized too. (And all the great sages of Israel, e.g. Rebbi Sar Shalom the

Kabbalist, the Chafetz Chayim, the Baal Shem Tov, the Gra, Rabbi Nachman, etc. Doesn't

that mean that all these people understood something that they just couldn't

convey to their disciples.)

·

The basic

reason that Christianity isn't idolatry is that, at first there were no kings,

just gods at the head of each people. As many different peoples there were, that's

how many gods there were.

The

Christians, accepting and worshiping the God of Israel, are by definition not

idol worshipers, whether they believe Jesus was God in human form or not. This,

of course, the Meiri and the Rashba and other Medieval authorities noticed

before me, and gave Christians the category of Gerey Toshav [proselytes of the

gates], not idolaters.

·

In the

old Kabbalah we find prayers addressed to the sephirot [traits] of God. We find

an Amora going to the grave of his father saying, “Save me! Save me!” — from his

enemies. We ask the angels for blessings on Friday night.

At what

point does praying to a trait of God not constitute idolatry and  to a stone yes?

Aren't they both creations of God?

The

Rambam explains that the prohibition on idolatry refers to the way idolatry

originally started — that is, the generation of Enosh saw the stars in Heaven,

and reasoned that since God has attributed honor to these creations it is right

that we do so also, and so they started worshiping them.

Since the

main prohibition of idolatry is dependent on the intention, if one prays to

something thinking of it as a creation separate from God it is idolatry. But if

he prays to it knowing that it is only a

manifestation

of God it is not.

[Though

this above idea may seem strange to many people however we find Rava in the

Gemara [and the Rambam hold as law] that even if one bows down to a statue for

love or fear of the statue, he hasn't transgressed the prohibition of idolatry

until he accepts it as a god, i.e. he believes it to have a separate existence

besides God.

If a

person would believe that God has put his name on a stone, [i.e., he believes

the stone is a manifestation of God and has no separate power or existence

besides God], even though this is a mistake, and that person bows down to the

stone, it isn't idol worship legally since in his mind, he is worshiping God.

[In the

language of the Gemara, “He didn't accept the stone for godliness”.] It isn't

even “Shogag” [accidental] since the prohibition depends on the thought. That

is why going to the graves of the saints or bowing down in front of a Torah

scroll isn't idol worship, since the people that do so believe that God has

placed His name on that thing.

This

explains why many of the first authorities held that the Christians aren't idol

worshipers. This also explains why the desire for money is actual idolatry [to

all the Sages of Chasidut]. This is idolatry, since even the people that do

this don't believe that God has placed his Name on the money. So, we can see

from this that even the Catholic Church isn't doing actual idolatry with the

statues, even though they are still forbidden from the verses that specifically

say not to make molten images.

However,

the Rambam holds differently than this, and he believes that thinking that one

needs any kind of middle-man between one and the Creator is idolatry.

This has

to be understood in context — for to the Rambam there is a higher plane than

Good and evil, that is Truth and falsehood, and the great evil of idolatry is

that it is falsehood.

What

makes it worse than other mistakes is that it depends on what one makes a

mistake about. Making a mistake about mundane things isn't so bad as making a

mistake about God. However, most authorities, even in the Talmud don't hold

this way, and until this day it is the custom of Jews everywhere to go to their

holy men for a blessing.

And even

the Rambam can't get away from the middleman for he says, [

The Guide

III:52], that the Intellect is the middleman between one and God. [You can't

complain about the Rambam speaking about every mitzvah being a middleman. For

he would say every mitzva isn't to attach you to God but to give you the right

opinions].

·

The prohibition of

idolatry

is to serve any of the creations of God, not a prohibition

to pray or ask a favor

from any creation, while knowing that it is in God's hands, for we ask saints

for a blessing, and we go to a bakery to ask for bread, and on the night of the

Shabbat we ask the angels to bless us.

·

I heard

from Issac Ram that the catholic church has the spirit of Jesus even though

they are idolatry. The more liberal denominations of the church are like the

meeting place between Western thought and Jesus, but the spirit of Jesus is

really there only in trace amounts.

[IMAGE: image055.jpg]

Chapter 3 - Paul

·

The

disciples of Jesus who knew Jesus whom Jesus chose (as he said “I have chosen

you”) suspected that Paul was telling people not to keep the commandments, and

sent for him. And he came to Jerusalem and defended himself saying; that he was

only telling non-Jews that they didn't have to become Jewish to be saved, but

he never told Jews not to keep the commandments. And even did commandments in

Jerusalem in front of people to prove that he was observant. Then again later

the disciples became suspicious and sent Peter to see what was going on. As it

turned out, their suspicion was correct as we see in Paul's letters.

[The

letters  were written over several years and perhaps represent Paul's later

ideas, but they still give us the basic gist of Paul's ideas - which the true

disciples of Jesus had made clear was totally against the true doctrines of

Jesus - and they threatened to excommunicate him if he would teach such false

teachings, which as it turned out he actually did teach. However it may be that

Paul held like Rashi in Macot 24 (“The righteous shall live by his faith”), so

I think Paul is legitimate.

However,

his hatred of the Law seems to have simply replaced the laws of God of the old

Testament with new meaningless rituals of the Catholic church. I just don't see

a point to attacking the laws of the Torah to the extent that he does. I guess

he wanted to emphasize the importance of loving the tzadik, and that that is

the only hope of salvation but  that doesn't seem to me to justify attacking

God's laws.

·

In his

letter to the Galatians [Gal. 2:6, in 57AD] he wrote about the disciples of

Jesus who were the leaders of the church in Jerusalem, “those people who are

acknowledged as leaders - not that their importance matters to me.” In 2

Corinthians 11:3-4 he acknowledges that the disciples of Jesus were teaching

about “another Jesus” different from the one he was teaching about. But I admit

the disciples in Jerusalem also don't come out looking so well: Annanis and his

wife after giving all their possessions to the community don't seem to me to be

guilty of the death penalty for keeping a few things for themselves.

[15]

[IMAGE: image056.jpg]

