
accepting Jesus, from that aspect.

This

would also explain the problems the world had at each stage a new knowledge

came into the world, “He who increases knowledge, increases pain.” [Proverbs]

·

1666 was the year of the discovery of the Law

of Gravity of Issac Newton and simultaneously the year of plague in London.

·

Special and General Relativity;

·

World War I/II and Quantum Theory

·

The Renaissance and the plague.

·

The Kabbalah and the expulsion from Spain.

·

Chasidut and the Napoleonic wars.

This is

because each new development is the result of two opposites reacting together

so the new synthesis comes out a new and improved product. But, the residue of

this process is Judgements.

It seems

possible to predict from this —now that the world is coming to a new age of

consciousness that some Judgements also will be awoken.

In  a

different section I have written what I think may help, specifically the five

parshiot Rabbi Nachman said that help for this.

·

Jesus

emphasizes private prayer, loving all people — religious or not — emphasizing

kindness and righteous action. He sounds more like Socrates than the Pope. And

while I'm at it why not mention that these were the things the kabbalists

emphasized too. (And all the great sages of Israel, e.g. Rebbi Sar Shalom the

Kabbalist, the Chafetz Chayim, the Baal Shem Tov, the Gra, Rabbi Nachman, etc. Doesn't

that mean that all these people understood something that they just couldn't

convey to their disciples.)

·

The basic

reason that Christianity isn't idolatry is that, at first there were no kings,

just gods at the head of each people. As many different peoples there were, that's

how many gods there were.

The

Christians, accepting and worshiping the God of Israel, are by definition not

idol worshipers, whether they believe Jesus was God in human form or not. This,

of course, the Meiri and the Rashba and other Medieval authorities noticed

before me, and gave Christians the category of Gerey Toshav [proselytes of the
