
the Rambam holds differently than this, and he believes that thinking that one

needs any kind of middle-man between one and the Creator is idolatry.

This has

to be understood in context — for to the Rambam there is a higher plane than

Good and evil, that is Truth and falsehood, and the great evil of idolatry is

that it is falsehood.

What

makes it worse than other mistakes is that it depends on what one makes a

mistake about. Making a mistake about mundane things isn't so bad as making a

mistake about God. However, most authorities, even in the Talmud don't hold

this way, and until this day it is the custom of Jews everywhere to go to their

holy men for a blessing.

And even

the Rambam can't get away from the middleman for he says, [

The Guide

III:52], that the Intellect is the middleman between one and God. [You can't

complain about the Rambam speaking about every mitzvah being a middleman. For

he would say every mitzva isn't to attach you to God but to give you the right

opinions].

·

The prohibition of

idolatry

is to serve any of the creations of God, not a prohibition

to pray or ask a favor

from any creation, while knowing that it is in God's hands, for we ask saints

for a blessing, and we go to a bakery to ask for bread, and on the night of the

Shabbat we ask the angels to bless us.

·

I heard

from Issac Ram that the catholic church has the spirit of Jesus even though

they are idolatry. The more liberal denominations of the church are like the

meeting place between Western thought and Jesus, but the spirit of Jesus is

really there only in trace amounts.

[IMAGE: image055.jpg]

Chapter 3 - Paul

·

The

disciples of Jesus who knew Jesus whom Jesus chose (as he said “I have chosen

you”) suspected that Paul was telling people not to keep the commandments, and

sent for him. And he came to Jerusalem and defended himself saying; that he was

only telling non-Jews that they didn't have to become Jewish to be saved, but

he never told Jews not to keep the commandments. And even did commandments in

Jerusalem in front of people to prove that he was observant. Then again later

the disciples became suspicious and sent Peter to see what was going on. As it

turned out, their suspicion was correct as we see in Paul's letters.

[The
