Chapter 2 - Christianity

·

Western

civilization grew on the ruins of the Roman Empire, since, according to Rabbi

Abulafia, the vertical part of the cross signifies Hebrew and the horizontal

part Latin and Greek. Therefore Christendom which had to contain all these

three elements in order to become Western civilization, is significantly

different than the rest of the world which remains in the Dark Ages until they

become westernized.

·

Christianity

just got too moral, and secularism just has got too immoral after Kant.

Nowadays, we base laws on science which are unproven and unfounded and only

barely out of the crib. Christianity has to first throw out all the laws of the

Bible, as Paul said to do. Then they have to make up their own morality.

Secularism first throws out the Bible, then logic and reason

as per Kant

.

Then they have to find their own things to fight like tobacco. (I would guess

that alcohol kills a lot more people on the road than tobacco but America found

out then the wise statement of Einstein, “You can't make illegal what people

are going to do anyway.”) I don't know the reason God forbade certain things in

the Bible and permitted others, but I suspect He knew what He was doing.

·

The path

to knowledge for the Jew and Christian has apparently taken the long and hard

paths. Getting out of religious thought and going to Aristotle and humanism

seems to have done much more for knowledge in general. Yet Jesus and Baba Sali

are also realities I must resort to the idea of drawing the light of the

circular sephirot (humanism) into the vessels of correction (Jewish people) Jewish

soul).

·

In the

opinion of the Meiri and the Rashba Christians aren't idol worshippers but in

the category of gerai toshav [proseleties of the gates] . In the opinion of

Rabbi Joseph Karo they are Gerai Hashaar (proselytes of the gate) which is on

even a higher level than gerai toshav (proselytes of dwelling who have legal

status and rights in Judaism though they aren't Jewish, since they keep the

seven Noaide laws) Rabbi Yaakov Emden writes “Christianity has been given to

the Gentile world by the Apostles as part of the Jewish religion and its

founder has made the moral laws stricter than those contained in the law of

Moses.”

·

Rabbi

Nachman said when one starts to come into the realm of holiness, judgements are

awoken against him. Thus, you could explain the problems Rome had after
