

Section I - Philosophy and Faith

Chapter 1 – God, the Song of

God

Rabbi Eliyahu

The Gaon from Vilna said “there are two things about God that one

always has to keep in mind; one is that he is infinitely great and beyond our

understanding; the other that he is infinitely close to us.” Because of this,

no matter how close we try to get to God, there are always many more ways to

go. How much closer to infinity is a hundred than one? Not much. So even if we

spend our lives getting closer to God from the aspect of his infinite distance,

we are still far. But if we spend our lives getting close to him from the

aspect of his infinite closeness, then we also can't make him much closer

[1]

. Since

God is both infinitely close and far at once (and this is impossible to

comprehend) thus the only place one can find God is really in one's heart where

one feels God.

·

There is

a force in the world called God.  All forces are included in Him, but He is

really a separate force from the forces of nature. There are three aspects of

God:

●

The spiritual level immediately above every individual level.

●

The spiritual level that is inward.

●

God as he really is--infinitely above and beyond everything.

When He

acts, his mark is unmistakable like in the splitting of the Red Sea, or with

the miracles associated with saints. But there is no way of predicting when or

where He will act. He has a tendency to act in cases of prayer or trust but

that isn't a rule it is just a tendency. He objects very strongly to being

demanded to do anything. This is the reason the redemption didn't come during

the second Temple period.

Even

though He tends to act on behalf of those that trust in Him, that trust has to

be strong enough to balance out the sins of the one trusting. One can never

tell who is righteous, since a righteous person might be doing less than he

could and therefore he is considered wicked; while a wicked person may be doing

everything he can and therefore be considered righteous. Since force tends to

act only for those who it

considers

to be righteous it can easily act

for those that we consider to be very wicked people.

