·

Spinoza's Proof of God - mathematical

The core

of Spinoza's proof of God is that God includes existence in his essence and

existence needs no cause because its essence is to exist (but God also has

infinite attributes besides existence.) At any rate existence needs to exist

only after it has some probability to exist which comes from the world of

akudim

which gives the wave function of the probability for the existence of the

spiritual and physical universe. That probability function in itself has a

cause, which has a cause etc., ad infinitum. This sequence of causes itself

needs a cause etc., ad infinitum - vertically - until we get to God vertically

and horizontally (ie. set of causes of the physical universe, set of causes of

the spiritual universe, set of causes of the spiritual spiritual universe,

etc.)  And this is the idea of God's infinite essences which are one with

existence and the infinite series of causes, and the cause of the infinite

series of causes, and the cause of the cause of the infinite series of causes

etc. And then we are only dealing with the first type of infinity like the

numbers between zero and one, or for whatever interval the universe was made

in, but then we have to deal with the infinite types of infinite series of

causes of the spiritual universes.

Spinoza,

by his proof of the existence of God, wanted to avoid the problems involved

with defining God as being the first cause (for who says there has to be a

limit to the number of causes) He didn't want God to be the first cause at all

rather existence itself (or the essence of existence). The way he avoids the

opposite conclusion is by the way he defines a true idea in the treatise on

human understanding. According to that work lack of existence isn't a true idea

or a true essence at all. However Hegel considers BEING to contain its opposite

nothingness and by the contradiction that each concept contains its opposite

comes to the more refined idea of Being i.e., Becoming which is what God meant

when Moses asked his name and he said “I will be that which I will be” for the

name Ehyeh means “I will be” and is the name of the highest

sepherah

in

each world

crown

. This means that the real idea of Being is possible to

come to only after an infinite progression of dialectic. This is the reason God

is so hard to touch, since it really isn't accurate to say that he is since

that is only the first approximation of describing Him. He is like dx which is

not nothing but is infinitely small and thus contains two opposites, being and

non-being. The end of Hegel's infinite progression is what I mean above by

Existence.

Spinoza'a

proof is like the Henkin sentence which by asserting its own provability

becomes provable. It has the ability to reflect on itself and thus logically

proves the existence of God on the real level, not just in logic. It reaches

out of itself like the strange loops that logic is filled with. Since Spinoza's

system is consistent it has to reach out so to speak into another plane as all

formal systems do -- just as number theory, in order to be consistent, has to

postulate super numbers.

Spinoza's

proof of God is based on the basic idea that everything that exists either is

self-causing or it is not. That which is, is defined as God. Now even though

there is a possibility to say everything came from a quantum fluctuation, still

if in fact that and the formulas involved with its creation came into being

with no cause, that would be Spinoza's “Substance” or God. Only with the

entirety of the Seven axioms do we get to God being one and infinite and

indivisible. So the faith of the Torah is possible to prove but only if you

have faith in the seven axioms of Spinoza, which correspond to the seven lower

sephirot

of

Royalty

.
