
Section II - Halachah

Chapter 1 - Principles of

Halacha

·

The

commandments of the Bible are forever (as it says in Deuteronomy 29:29). You

will find by hundreds of commandments that it says openly that they are forever

e.g., the Sabbath. The Talmud is meant to be the code of Jewish law. Therefore,

one is allowed to depend on any opinion there within the limits of what the

Talmud itself defines as law. For instance, if one is allowed to kiss his

sister or any relative, we find a disagreement. The authorities decide one way

but since the Talmud itself doesn't decide there is some possibility to be

lenient.

·

The

Rambam says we go by the majority only at the time of the Sanhedrin, but in a

time that there is no Sanhedrin, concerning biblical law we go by the stricter

opinion and concerning rabbinical law we go by the lenient opinion - even

against a majority opinion (this is against the Shach in Yore Dea, however one

can depend on the Rambam.) We see however that the Rambam didn't use this

principle in Mishna Torah. I think perhaps this is because he held the Gemarah

has the category of the Sanhedrin. Only in issues which come up after the

Gemarah is this principle used, or when there is a disagreement as to what the

Gemarah's actual conclusions were.

·

The way

of judging an issue by majority of authorities is a statistical way coming from

the world of chaos and probability, while the way of revelation is from the

world of correction. So even if you have a tzadik like Rabbi Nachman who

reveals things based on his own revelation you still need to judge the issues

based on probability and statistics which is from world of chaos since the goal

is to put chaos and correction together.

·

Rabbi

Chayim Vital says one who makes a legal decision without the knowledge of the

mysteries of the Kabbalah can't make a correct legal decision. This doesn't

cancel the Talmud or Maimonides, but it limits their decisions to be in

accordance with prophets and kabbalists of Israel.

·

There are

things that God is strict about that the halacha permits and things which He

allows that the law prohibits. [It may take a bit of time and talent for the

earthly courts to get the law correctly for the general public, but even if

they would have it right, they still wouldn't have the law as it applies to

each individual correctly.] For instance, the law that a prophet who

transgresses the words of his own prophecy gets the death penalty applies to

each individual. One has what he knows in his heart to be the right intuition

but disobeys it because of advice from friend or even rabbis. Or for instance

resting on Shabbat: there are the 39 types of labor forbidden to everyone,

however the idea and enjoyment of Shabbat is a highly individual thing.

·

A

possible reason the Torah says a woman can't be a judge is that she will tend

to go against the male in a case involving a man and a woman while a male judge

will tend to be more impartial since men have a natural sexual attraction to

women but also a natural sympathy towards men since they are their own kind.

But women have no natural attraction to men in general (they simply aren't

turned on by the sight of a male), so they are automatically biased. (i.e.,

with men the two biases cancel out, but the women are left with only one bias).

·

Whether

or not the rabbis of the Talmud had the authority to make any laws at all is

the subject of a debate in Avot DeRabbi Nathan: “Make a fence around the Torah.

Make a fence around your words like God made a fence around his words, and Adam

made a fence around his words, and the Torah made a fence around its words

etc... What caused the woman to touch the tree? The fence that Adam made around

his words. Because of this The Rabbis said: ‘If a man makes a fence around his

words, he won't be able to keep his words.’ Thus, the Rabbis said, ‘a man

should not add to the things he hears.’ Rabbi Yose said, ‘Better 10 inches and

it stands than 100 yards and it falls.’ Thus, we find this to be the subject of

a debate. What is interesting to note is that in any argument of any rabbis

against Rabbi Yose the law is always like Rabbi Yose, but here the general opinion

of the Gemara is not like Rabbi Yose – here there was probably a majority

opinion against him.

·

The

Rambam gives the principles for the commandments: according to him they are not

possibilities but the definite reasons. Thus, according to Rabbi Shimon Bar

Yochai who holds that when the reason for a commandment doesn't apply the

commandment doesn't apply, there will be cases where one should not keep a

certain commandment. I think that this wouldn't just apply to specific laws

relating to the commandments but even specific situations. The Rambam makes it

clear that these situations do exist, for he says that the Torah was given for

the general situations but there will always come up situations where the

keeping of a law will negate the intention of the law. It seems to me that in

such a situation one should not keep the law, as the Sages said, “A sin for the

sake of God is greater than a mitzvah not for the sake of God.”

The

specific intentions of the Law the Rambam states are:

1)

To despise and reduce one's physical desires.

2)

Politeness

3)

Cleanliness in heart, actions, body and

dress. [

The Guide

III, 33] (The Rambam says in

The Guide

III, 49

that most of the mitzvot called “hukim” are to be a fence against the doctrines

of idolatry.

In volume

III chapter 31, he says that all the mitzvot were given for the following

reasons: to teach us some truth or remove some false opinion, to establish a

proper society, to stop wickedness, to train in good manners, and to warn

against bad habits.

In short, opinions, morals and social conduct.

From

these principles it should be clear what the intent of any specific mitzvah is,

and thus in the opinion of Rabbi Shimon [or Rabbi Yehuda to the Yerushalmi and

Sifri], when it doesn't apply. Now, it is interesting to note that there is no

disagreement in the gemara if in fact the reason for the mitzva not to take a

pledge from a widow is not to have to go back to her house every night to

return it, and thus cause to her a bad reputation. It is just that rabbi Yehuda

says you can't decide to limit the scope of the law because of the reason. So,

as to the fact that it is based on reason and to which reason there is no

disagreement. So, we see that it is not as if there is just God and then the

Law. Rather it is God — Reason, and logic — Law. As the Zohar say, Torah is the

shredding of the higher wisdom. Now, this idea doesn't disagree with the

Kabbalah that gives deeper significance to the laws, for the ideal significance

of the Kabbalah is contained within the logic, i.e., in our case, not to give

her [the divine presence] a bad name [falling into exile] among her neighbors

[the higher worlds].

