
each individual. One has what he knows in his heart to be the right intuition

but disobeys it because of advice from friend or even rabbis. Or for instance

resting on Shabbat: there are the 39 types of labor forbidden to everyone,

however the idea and enjoyment of Shabbat is a highly individual thing.

·

A

possible reason the Torah says a woman can't be a judge is that she will tend

to go against the male in a case involving a man and a woman while a male judge

will tend to be more impartial since men have a natural sexual attraction to

women but also a natural sympathy towards men since they are their own kind.

But women have no natural attraction to men in general (they simply aren't

turned on by the sight of a male), so they are automatically biased. (i.e.,

with men the two biases cancel out, but the women are left with only one bias).

·

Whether

or not the rabbis of the Talmud had the authority to make any laws at all is

the subject of a debate in Avot DeRabbi Nathan: “Make a fence around the Torah.

Make a fence around your words like God made a fence around his words, and Adam

made a fence around his words, and the Torah made a fence around its words

etc... What caused the woman to touch the tree? The fence that Adam made around

his words. Because of this The Rabbis said: ‘If a man makes a fence around his

words, he won't be able to keep his words.’ Thus, the Rabbis said, ‘a man

should not add to the things he hears.’ Rabbi Yose said, ‘Better 10 inches and

it stands than 100 yards and it falls.’ Thus, we find this to be the subject of

a debate. What is interesting to note is that in any argument of any rabbis

against Rabbi Yose the law is always like Rabbi Yose, but here the general opinion

of the Gemara is not like Rabbi Yose – here there was probably a majority

opinion against him.

·

The

Rambam gives the principles for the commandments: according to him they are not

possibilities but the definite reasons. Thus, according to Rabbi Shimon Bar

Yochai who holds that when the reason for a commandment doesn't apply the

commandment doesn't apply, there will be cases where one should not keep a

certain commandment. I think that this wouldn't just apply to specific laws

relating to the commandments but even specific situations. The Rambam makes it

clear that these situations do exist, for he says that the Torah was given for

the general situations but there will always come up situations where the

keeping of a law will negate the intention of the law. It seems to me that in

such a situation one should not keep the law, as the Sages said, “A sin for the

sake of God is greater than a mitzvah not for the sake of God.”

The

specific intentions of the Law the Rambam states are:

1)

To despise and reduce one's physical desires.

2)
