
Section II - Halachah

Chapter 1 - Principles of

Halacha

·

The

commandments of the Bible are forever (as it says in Deuteronomy 29:29). You

will find by hundreds of commandments that it says openly that they are forever

e.g., the Sabbath. The Talmud is meant to be the code of Jewish law. Therefore,

one is allowed to depend on any opinion there within the limits of what the

Talmud itself defines as law. For instance, if one is allowed to kiss his

sister or any relative, we find a disagreement. The authorities decide one way

but since the Talmud itself doesn't decide there is some possibility to be

lenient.

·

The

Rambam says we go by the majority only at the time of the Sanhedrin, but in a

time that there is no Sanhedrin, concerning biblical law we go by the stricter

opinion and concerning rabbinical law we go by the lenient opinion - even

against a majority opinion (this is against the Shach in Yore Dea, however one

can depend on the Rambam.) We see however that the Rambam didn't use this

principle in Mishna Torah. I think perhaps this is because he held the Gemarah

has the category of the Sanhedrin. Only in issues which come up after the

Gemarah is this principle used, or when there is a disagreement as to what the

Gemarah's actual conclusions were.

·

The way

of judging an issue by majority of authorities is a statistical way coming from

the world of chaos and probability, while the way of revelation is from the

world of correction. So even if you have a tzadik like Rabbi Nachman who

reveals things based on his own revelation you still need to judge the issues

based on probability and statistics which is from world of chaos since the goal

is to put chaos and correction together.

·

Rabbi

Chayim Vital says one who makes a legal decision without the knowledge of the

mysteries of the Kabbalah can't make a correct legal decision. This doesn't

cancel the Talmud or Maimonides, but it limits their decisions to be in

accordance with prophets and kabbalists of Israel.

·

There are

things that God is strict about that the halacha permits and things which He

allows that the law prohibits. [It may take a bit of time and talent for the

earthly courts to get the law correctly for the general public, but even if

they would have it right, they still wouldn't have the law as it applies to

each individual correctly.] For instance, the law that a prophet who

transgresses the words of his own prophecy gets the death penalty applies to
