Chapter 2 – The Baal Teshuva

Movement

·

Fear of

freedom caused many people to go into Orthodox Judaism or other authoritarian

cults. But by trust in God and confidence that God truly runs the world, one

can face the future without fear. “One person can't touch what is meant for

someone else”. However, it is important as one faces the world without the

moral support of some vast group to feel a part of, that one sticks with his

family and true friends. “Praise God all families of the Earth.” [I am not

implying however that all authority is bad. There is rational authority and

non-rational authority, i.e., authority that is intended for the growth and

future self-sufficient independence of the subject is good authority. Authority

which has in mind to keep the subject indefinitely dependent on the leader is

evil.]

·

There is

a great crusade to indoctrinate non-religious college age people into the

orthodox community. From many aspects this looks attractive except for one

point. They themselves form an organic community. It is an entire network. When

they have a strain in their marriage, they increase their interaction with friends

and family and receive a large degree of support therefrom. The newcomers

however are never really integrated into the community and therefore when they

have a strain the community doesn't help and usually hurts considerably and

since they broke their ties with their own families, they get no support from

there either [of course there is some token help but nothing that really helps.

And especially if they marry someone religious from birth or more integrated

into the community than they will have to face an entire community effort to

break up their marriage, and take their children and money as is already well

known from common occurrences everyday.]

There is

a deep reason for this for everything below has its roots above, and the

several non-orthodox movements within Judaism have their roots up above that

are different than the orthodox. It's not that they are right. Those movements

are wrong on many points. However, the non-religious Jews that belong to them

come from a different spiritual root than the orthodox. In many ways that root

is higher than that of the orthodox. And so, one who comes to join the Orthodox

will not be accepted, not because of anything wrong with him or them but

because they in fact have the innate intuition to realize what he doesn't

realize; that he doesn't belong with them.

·

One of

the great problems I see today in

Yiddishkeit

is that it is an ethnic

religion that tends to ignore a great force that is inside every person. That

is the force of humanity, i.e., of being human. In theory this part of a person

is totally ignored and all that is paid attention to is the Jewish part of a

person. What is wrong with this - other than it being contrary to the Rambam - is

that there is apparently a force of decency and compassion that if ignored or

suppressed can be stamped out.

Since I

deal in this book with the

Kabbalah

, and the

Kabbalah

is clear

that the only good part of any person is the Jewish part, I have to assume this

force which I call the force of humanity, is in fact a Jewish force that has

become adopted among the nations either by their own religions which have

accepted Jewish principles or the exile of Jews among the nations, or the exile

of the ten tribes “north”, i.e., into Europe apparently becoming the north

European nations. At any rate, this force of humanity, I believe, is what the

kabbalah calls

yechida,

the genius of the species.

Chaya

is the

genius of the nation. The soul is the genius of the tribe, or state of the

nation.

Spirit

is the genius of the family and the

nefesh

is the

individual soul. Thus, the higher one rises spiritually the more he cares about

others.

Thus, the

emphasis of the Torah on the Jewish people specifically only applied until the

non-Jewish nations also began to gain the

yechida

, the genius of the

species. For up till that time only the Jewish people embodied that genius.

Thus, according to this way of thinking the inner spirit of humanity is what

the Torah really means by Jewish.

This is

the reason why one must stick with one's family, since they are manifestations

of one's spirit. Now the urge and longing for spirituality isn't from the soul,

which is just a vessel for the Divine light, but rather from the Divine light

itself. Thus, there is usually a tendency on the part of the soul to stick with

his own family, friends, neighborhood, country -- while from the Divine light

one wants to go off searching for something. As in all things one should find

the middle path.

Many

times, one is taught to find the Divine Will in the teachings of his rebbi or

other saint or head of his yeshiva. Yet it is more in accordance with the Torah

to find this guidance in the world at large. The universe is God's yeshiva. The

real spiritual teachers are the people that really care about you, because they

have the most intuitive understanding of your own soul. Being born in America,

makes one’s nation [not people] America, however being Jewish makes one also

part of the Jewish people. The fact is, no matter how Jewish one is, he

partakes of the character of the country he was born in, and no matter how much

he partakes of that character, inside he remains Jewish. This isn't the same as

the difference between politics and religion which should remain separate. [UNFORTUNATELY,

IT DOESN'T SINCE POLITICS HAS BECOME A RELIGION — Liberalism, Zionism,

Religious Zionism, and Anti-Zionism are all religions now. I think it was

better when religion was religion and politics was politics.]

·

The

problem with Orthodox Judaism today is that its ethics is based on an end,

i.e., the advancement of itself, and that is very different than a morality

based on the Divine Will [as per the first authorities] or on Reason [as per

the Rambam]. The value of any end depends on its being set by Reason or the

Divine Will and the advancement of Orthodox Judaism isn't an end stated or

implied in the Torah. The Torah's morality is to do the

mitzvot

in order

to get to be attached to God. [Since Orthodox ethics is end-based, this

explains why in the mind of the orthodox it is permitted to lie, cheat, steal,

kidnap and murder in order advance their movement, for to their way of thinking

the advancement of their movement is all that matters. Only an ethics that is principle-based

avoids these problems. However, Safardic Jewish ethics has been principle based

until recently and thus their version of Torah ethics was much closer to the

Torah. Also, Torah Ethics even with Ashkenazi Jewry was largely principal base

in Russia and Poland. Only at the turn of the century did the socialist ideals

floating around infected them and then it became a socialist movement and thus

it remains until today.]

