
is the force of humanity, i.e., of being human. In theory this part of a person

is totally ignored and all that is paid attention to is the Jewish part of a

person. What is wrong with this - other than it being contrary to the Rambam - is

that there is apparently a force of decency and compassion that if ignored or

suppressed can be stamped out.

Since I

deal in this book with the

Kabbalah

, and the

Kabbalah

is clear

that the only good part of any person is the Jewish part, I have to assume this

force which I call the force of humanity, is in fact a Jewish force that has

become adopted among the nations either by their own religions which have

accepted Jewish principles or the exile of Jews among the nations, or the exile

of the ten tribes “north”, i.e., into Europe apparently becoming the north

European nations. At any rate, this force of humanity, I believe, is what the

kabbalah calls

yechida,

the genius of the species.

Chaya

is the

genius of the nation. The soul is the genius of the tribe, or state of the

nation.

Spirit

is the genius of the family and the

nefesh

is the

individual soul. Thus, the higher one rises spiritually the more he cares about

others.

Thus, the

emphasis of the Torah on the Jewish people specifically only applied until the

non-Jewish nations also began to gain the

yechida

, the genius of the

species. For up till that time only the Jewish people embodied that genius.

Thus, according to this way of thinking the inner spirit of humanity is what

the Torah really means by Jewish.

This is

the reason why one must stick with one's family, since they are manifestations

of one's spirit. Now the urge and longing for spirituality isn't from the soul,

which is just a vessel for the Divine light, but rather from the Divine light

itself. Thus, there is usually a tendency on the part of the soul to stick with

his own family, friends, neighborhood, country -- while from the Divine light

one wants to go off searching for something. As in all things one should find

the middle path.
