Chapter 2 – The Baal Teshuva

Movement

·

Fear of

freedom caused many people to go into Orthodox Judaism or other authoritarian

cults. But by trust in God and confidence that God truly runs the world, one

can face the future without fear. “One person can't touch what is meant for

someone else”. However, it is important as one faces the world without the

moral support of some vast group to feel a part of, that one sticks with his

family and true friends. “Praise God all families of the Earth.” [I am not

implying however that all authority is bad. There is rational authority and

non-rational authority, i.e., authority that is intended for the growth and

future self-sufficient independence of the subject is good authority. Authority

which has in mind to keep the subject indefinitely dependent on the leader is

evil.]

·

There is

a great crusade to indoctrinate non-religious college age people into the

orthodox community. From many aspects this looks attractive except for one

point. They themselves form an organic community. It is an entire network. When

they have a strain in their marriage, they increase their interaction with friends

and family and receive a large degree of support therefrom. The newcomers

however are never really integrated into the community and therefore when they

have a strain the community doesn't help and usually hurts considerably and

since they broke their ties with their own families, they get no support from

there either [of course there is some token help but nothing that really helps.

And especially if they marry someone religious from birth or more integrated

into the community than they will have to face an entire community effort to

break up their marriage, and take their children and money as is already well

known from common occurrences everyday.]

There is

a deep reason for this for everything below has its roots above, and the

several non-orthodox movements within Judaism have their roots up above that

are different than the orthodox. It's not that they are right. Those movements

are wrong on many points. However, the non-religious Jews that belong to them

come from a different spiritual root than the orthodox. In many ways that root

is higher than that of the orthodox. And so, one who comes to join the Orthodox

will not be accepted, not because of anything wrong with him or them but

because they in fact have the innate intuition to realize what he doesn't

realize; that he doesn't belong with them.

·

One of

the great problems I see today in

Yiddishkeit

is that it is an ethnic

religion that tends to ignore a great force that is inside every person. That
