
Section III - LIFE

Chapter 1 - Family

“Parents, do not irritate your

children or they will lose heart.” -- Colossians 3:21

·

Ones

close friends and family are part of one's soul. To cut them off is to put

oneself at risk of cutting off a vital organ. Children leaving their parents

home at the age of 18 are in general making a mistake, for the soul isn't ripe

then and should still be attached to the tree. Every family is a tree. One

can't cut himself off from any part of it without dire danger to himself. This

refers to spiritual families where there is love, not to merely physical

families.

Families

are the 10 sephirot:

God, Father,

Mother and the children. The true friends are the

makifim

(outer light).

Enemies are the klipot caused by the breaking of the vessels, if they have some

reason for their hatred. If not, they are from the empty space from which God

removed his Presence in order to create the world.

·

Eighteen

is a very bad age to leave the home for the light from one's father which is

the outer light doesn't come strongly until the age of twenty and it’s that

outer light which is the strongest protection. Eighteen-year-olds don't realize

they are considered a resource. So many institutions do everything possible to

take them away from their parents physically and spiritually, which cuts them

off from their roots and kills them (spiritually and sometimes physically), and

sometimes that kills the parents also.

·

In

general, if the two parents are living together for the reason of love, then

the children should not leave the home to live in a different state. For two

people living together from love have more to teach their children than all the

schools put together.

·

The root

of not getting along with parents starts from the brothers and sisters. One

must get along with his brothers and sisters with absolute self-sacrifice.

Siblings aren't people who would automatically be friends. Usually they are

completely different, but they have a common root. Therefore, they must try to

go beneath surface appearance to that common root.

·

For major

decisions in ones life, one should have a meeting of his close family and

friends to discuss it. (This idea is from George Fox.) I don't believe in

asking rabbis or clergy for advice for they will always give advice in such a

way that will get you sucked into their particular version of their particular

religion. Look, it’s their way of making a living - can you blame them? But if

you don't want to make a mess of your life, take count of all the people who

love you sincerely or who have stuck themselves out on a limb for you, (i.e.,

family and real friends), find the majority opinion on any major issue

affecting your life and stick with it. The idea applies only if they do love

you and not just a relationship of convenience.

·

Nowadays

there is no pact [contract] between parents and children to stick together. But

there should be. Just because society has forgotten what it means to have

families stick together doesn't mean you have to. The commitment to stick

together provides a

makif

(an outer protective light) that can ward off

the

klipot

, just like marriage. (The commitment in a society to stick

together also provides its unique type of

makif

(surrounding protective

light) and that is the spiritual source of political systems.) Monarchy,

democracy, theocracy, communism, socialism, republicanism, which are from the 6

sephirot, Kindness, Power, Beauty, Eternity, Splendor, and Royalty.

·

The idea

of family is to stay with each other through the ups and downs (i.e., since in

every family there are going to be periods that each individual member goes

nuts, that is the time every other member has to stick with them. As the Sages

said, “accept and exist” -- i.e., accept what comes at you, lower your head and

let the wave pass over, and then you will be able to stand).

·

Commitment

to sticking together as a family is an ideal which seems at first glance to

cancel out all other ideals since there is always lot of inertia to prevent one

from the direction, he thinks he must take; however, I think that the

temptation to separate is in general a test of the evil side, and only if one

stays firm, does he really come to that which he must (without breaking up the

family). [It's always good to have lots of inertia. Some things need to be done

but it's always good to sit on every major change for a long time. When I was

in Kiev and my black friend John Jackson was with me, I remember some incident

that I wanted to call the police about and he said no, wait. And we waited and

it turned out ok in fact. I've never had an experience with the police anytime

that they didn't make things worse.]

For Parents

·

Rabbi

Nachman said, “He who doesn't have compassion on his children has no portion in

the intelligence of holiness.” Somehow it strikes me that Einstein gave up his

family to advance his career and it's that which did him no good. He had

already developed the principles of the general theory of gravitation, and

never after that developed another viable theory. And he went to Germany to

accept a fancy position there, and eventually they were about to expel him, so

the day before that he resigned. Now who are we to judge? Yet it is a bit odd.

Maybe he would have made more progress if he had stuck with his wife and kids.

·

Give your

children a relationship, especially when they are teenagers. If you don't get

along with them at that age, be rest assured, they will find someone else to

get along with and fall into some stupid cult which will be their parent

figure. Don't ignore religion and philosophy so your children who will search

will be able to talk with you about it.

·

Your

children are your life. You receive flow only to the degree you give flow. In

Akudim, Zeir and Nukbah are greater than Abba and Imma, so as we progress

towards the final correction many times the children are better than the

parents.

·

There is

no such thing as children. Children are just adults that look small, and adults

are children who look big.

·

The only

way to rebuke your children is if it hurts you more than it hurts them to do

so. Children don't respond to words or deeds but to feelings. Feelings are all

that matter in human relationships, therefore there are no rules. If a parent

who has no love raises children according to all the rules, the result will not

be good. If a parent with love raises his/her children even if he breaks all

the rules, the result will be good. Giving a child in to the hands of a parent

or guardian who doesn't love the child - is murder.

·

The force

that holds the children around the parents as the Coulomb attraction

[IMAGE: image009.gif]

.

For more

children, the parents need to include more power from the name 45 and 52, i.e.,

to include more male and female flow. For seven children, the family gains the

character of Nitrogen in connection with one more. A Seven child family is

inert like N2, but must avoid any connection with nitroglycerine-people, so

that it doesn't form bonds resulting in TNT.

·

Parents -

spend time teaching your children your philosophy or they will get the world-views

from elsewhere, i.e., spending time with them to teach math or just to talk

isn't the same thing.

Teenagers

have to be bad. So let them be bad in something not so bad.

When your

teen comes home from school and wants to talk, never turn him down even if it

is daily for hours. If he can't talk to you, he will find someone else to talk

to that won't necessarily be to your liking.

Children

need your respect more than your love. The key to raising children is to assume

as a given [an axiom] that if they say something that it means something. Don't

think because you are some big shot parents that their feelings are

meaningless. If you do you will eventually find yourself to be meaningless in

their lives.

·

One

application of Game Theory in raising children is don't try to impose total

authority. Assume as a political leader you can't get total control. But there

are areas where you can have some minimal control. Maximize your minimal gains.

Don't try to get everything. Try to get the greatest number of

small

gains. (Especially in a free society where children are well aware of what kind

of world they live in and will not respond to a dictatorial parent. This is

probably the case in general no matter what kind of environment it is, but in a

free society the reaction is more pronounced.

·

Parents

are only parents to the older boy and girl. The older children are the

spiritual parents of the younger children.

·

It’s not

good to be authoritarian, only authoritative. The reason is that the evil

inclination is divided among the nations of the world and every nation has a

different evil inclination [as per the

Likutai Moharan

]. The evil

inclination has to get divided up in every house in a similar way, and only a

certain kind of leader can subdue it.

·

Don't bug

your children. Respect your children. They are the same people they will be

when they are adults.

·

If you

are angry with your children, this is a sure sign that judgements are dwelling

on you. Assume you are wrong.

·

Rabbi

Nachman gave said some advice which I think is particularly appropriate for

raising children. One of his major principles was, “Not to be stubborn about anything

in the world”, which in Hebrew has a little different connotation than in

English. It means not to force any issue with children. Also, he said not to

slug them. Which in modern day Breslov is interpreted to mean not to hit them

at all but I can't imagine that Rabbi Nachman really meant that. However, it

probably is a good idea to not hit at all.

·

For Children

·

For

children let me warn you the worst thing you could ever do to yourselves is to

cause your parents pain (emotionally). It's worth it to give up a lot to keep

your parents happy - even bad parents. I understand there can be exceptions,

but this is a general rule.

·

One who

stands alone without his family will probably fall into some trap the religious

and political fanatics of the world like to set for people. This is an

important principle in life. (Sometimes a parent can be lacking all parental

feelings, and thus be unfit to advise his children, but in the natural scheme,

one's best friend will always be one's parents.)

·

The Sages

say that one should hold on to the profession of his father. This in fact is

the case in a spiritual way, but the meaning isn't that one should do nothing

else, but that one should do something related to his father’s profession or

interests.

·

Your

parents provided you with your car and road map. The great saints like Jesus or

Rabbi Nachman wrote the road map, and their disciples printed it. But your

parents bought and paid for it. So, the saints deserve praise for the general

lighting of the road. But you owe your parents for your specific light. Rabbi

Nachman implies that the general correction is the most powerful, however both

are important.

·

A person

whose life function is analytic (like a sine or cosine) can be expanded into a

Taylor series — and therefore one should have children. And since the sine or

cosine is periodic he can be represented as a Fourier expansion <???>

(A)+

S

[(a)(sin nx) +(b)(cos nx)

f

rom zero

to infinity, where the first term is what God gives and the second is from the

mother, soul of the mother, soul of the soul of the mother etc., and the last

term is from the father, soul of the father, etc. (The reason people’s lives are,

in general, sine or cosine functions, is that the life-force drawn into the

empty space is an oscillating AC current.

