
that they didn't make things worse.]

For Parents

·

Rabbi

Nachman said, “He who doesn't have compassion on his children has no portion in

the intelligence of holiness.” Somehow it strikes me that Einstein gave up his

family to advance his career and it's that which did him no good. He had

already developed the principles of the general theory of gravitation, and

never after that developed another viable theory. And he went to Germany to

accept a fancy position there, and eventually they were about to expel him, so

the day before that he resigned. Now who are we to judge? Yet it is a bit odd.

Maybe he would have made more progress if he had stuck with his wife and kids.

·

Give your

children a relationship, especially when they are teenagers. If you don't get

along with them at that age, be rest assured, they will find someone else to

get along with and fall into some stupid cult which will be their parent

figure. Don't ignore religion and philosophy so your children who will search

will be able to talk with you about it.

·

Your

children are your life. You receive flow only to the degree you give flow. In

Akudim, Zeir and Nukbah are greater than Abba and Imma, so as we progress

towards the final correction many times the children are better than the

parents.

·

There is

no such thing as children. Children are just adults that look small, and adults

are children who look big.

·

The only

way to rebuke your children is if it hurts you more than it hurts them to do

so. Children don't respond to words or deeds but to feelings. Feelings are all

that matter in human relationships, therefore there are no rules. If a parent

who has no love raises children according to all the rules, the result will not

be good. If a parent with love raises his/her children even if he breaks all

the rules, the result will be good. Giving a child in to the hands of a parent

or guardian who doesn't love the child - is murder.

·

The force

that holds the children around the parents as the Coulomb attraction

[IMAGE: image009.gif]

.

For more

children, the parents need to include more power from the name 45 and 52, i.e.,

to include more male and female flow. For seven children, the family gains the
