
Section III - LIFE

Chapter 1 - Family

“Parents, do not irritate your

children or they will lose heart.” -- Colossians 3:21

·

Ones

close friends and family are part of one's soul. To cut them off is to put

oneself at risk of cutting off a vital organ. Children leaving their parents

home at the age of 18 are in general making a mistake, for the soul isn't ripe

then and should still be attached to the tree. Every family is a tree. One

can't cut himself off from any part of it without dire danger to himself. This

refers to spiritual families where there is love, not to merely physical

families.

Families

are the 10 sephirot:

God, Father,

Mother and the children. The true friends are the

makifim

(outer light).

Enemies are the klipot caused by the breaking of the vessels, if they have some

reason for their hatred. If not, they are from the empty space from which God

removed his Presence in order to create the world.

·

Eighteen

is a very bad age to leave the home for the light from one's father which is

the outer light doesn't come strongly until the age of twenty and it’s that

outer light which is the strongest protection. Eighteen-year-olds don't realize

they are considered a resource. So many institutions do everything possible to

take them away from their parents physically and spiritually, which cuts them

off from their roots and kills them (spiritually and sometimes physically), and

sometimes that kills the parents also.

·

In

general, if the two parents are living together for the reason of love, then

the children should not leave the home to live in a different state. For two

people living together from love have more to teach their children than all the

schools put together.

·

The root

of not getting along with parents starts from the brothers and sisters. One

must get along with his brothers and sisters with absolute self-sacrifice.

Siblings aren't people who would automatically be friends. Usually they are

completely different, but they have a common root. Therefore, they must try to

go beneath surface appearance to that common root.

·

For major
