Chapter 12 - Decisions

The Greeks said know

yourself. Perhaps meaning, “Know your lacks and your good traits. Then you can

compensate. In place of lacks you can find friends that can do that part of

your life that you can't take care of. In the good traits you will know what to

concentrate upon.”

·

Trust in God and

simplicity. If you don't know something, then it is because Vesikin Vesikin God

doesn't want you to know. If He wants you to know, he knows how to let you

know. So, trust means do nothing until God shows you clearly His will. To trust

in God, you need to learn to live with doubt until God solves the problem. But

this is not automatic. Rather one needs actively to put oneself in God's

presence and then I believe that God will take care of him.

·

a.

Reconnaissance.

b.

Independent Confirmation, [from a source other than

yourself].

c.

Be Prepared.

d.

Verify yourself if it really is like you heard or think.

e.

Bible.

·

In America, people

pay a salary to what is called a personal coach or someone whose job it is to

get your life to be the best that it can be. This is what used to be a friend

[or rabbi], but nowadays with that gone one needs to pay a personal coach. If that

is a bit expensive a true friend is good to have. [So apparently the idea of

advice from a friend or mentor is not a totally negative concept as I write in

note {6}.

·

Situational

Awareness: This is something that fighter pilots need to stay alive. It is

being aware of the whole situation around oneself, not just what is in front of

us. This is the reason non-predators have their eyes on the side of their

heads. [Predators have eyes in front of their head like people]. In life

sometimes I am aware something is wrong in a certain place or situation, but I

can't put my finger on it. So, to some degree I have this awareness but in

general I have not acted on it, preferring to think everything is rosy and all

people are loving. Well, they are not and if you sense something is wrong, head

on out of there as fast as you can.

·

For Colonel Simons,

the great principle was reconnaissance -- [check it out before you go in]. This

was the difference between when he went in to rescue the hostages in Iran and

being successful, while in a different rescue attempt by the army, it was unsuccessful.

But in the

frum

world

you hear things like Rav Sonenfeld getting married on the first one offered to

him whether she would be proper or not. Maybe this was OK for him, but this

isn't the same thing as trusting in God. Trusting in God means you trust in

God, but you act to the best of your ability in each situation while knowing

that the final result is in any case only dependent upon God's will.

·

Is the “good” advice

of some rabbis a trap to lead one to be their slave and give up on their free

will? Or is it perhaps to lead one into an unproductive life? Why did all the

frum/orthodox stay in Europe during the period of the Holocaust? Wasn't it because

their rabbis who had generally given them good advice, advised them one time

unwisely, i.e., not to flee when the Nazis rose to power?!

From 1933 until 1939

why did almost no religious Jews flee from Poland? It is only because rabbis

gave them good advice at various times, so they assumed that this time also

would be so. Is what we call the Divine spirit of some rabbis a trap? [To lose

one's free will? Why is it that when faced with a life decision you don't know

which way to jump? Isn't it that slowly you have allowed the rabbis to take

over your consciousness and now I can't get it back?

·

So, life decisions I

think must be made thus:

a.

Never ask advice from people or rabbis. For once you have

heard it, it makes an effect even if you decide to reject it later - and every

time you ask you give up a little bit of your free will.

b.

Never make a life decision under pressure emotional or

sexual needs.

c.

Find a way to relax, like Winston Churchill who made most

major decisions of World War II while lying in a bathtub.

d.

Like Barbara [a friend] said, “Find out.” Do the work

necessary to find out the right course of action. Don't assume things.

·

But my question is

does this apply to a rabbi who has always seems to be right? Perhaps he really

is wise?

·

Israel of Koznitz

said a mitzvah that comes suddenly is usually from the evil side.

·

In all these

principles there are contradictions. So, I think the best thing is to make a

hierarchy of advice principles. The first being if you know you are not capable

of a correct decision then put it in God's hands.

·

The irony of it all

is that every attempt to bring Utopia to humankind seems to result in increased

chaos and suffering.

·

Why is it that the

experts always seem to know the least and to be lacking common sense? This is

not that people in general are all that much better. But the “experts” seem to

have a knack for getting on the wrong track. When I was young, I was convinced

that the reason for this was that experts are usually mediocre minds that have

done the work to get where they are. Then, in their position of power, their

inherent absence of talent manifests itself. This is probably correct.

But I must change

this idea. For my original idea was that all intelligence is one. This may be

true but nowadays I think talent tends to be very selective. Even Leonardo Da

Vinci had art and invention but no other fields. I used to say this was from

lack of time to go into everything. But now I think it simply may be talent is

selective. Of course, even after one has talent nothing can replace that spark

of inspiration one needs from God. For this reason, I believe fear of God is

important for creativity.

·

To answer questions

in life - no coin flips. No trying to get inspiration.

There is:

1.

First impression.

2.

Basic feeling.

3.

Doing the work to find out.

Not people's advice.

[There is enough in

his Godliness for every creation. Be satisfied with what godliness he gives

you.]

·

The is the problem of

listening to rabbis even though they may not be wise, perhaps puts one on the

wrong track - or just reinforces the already wrong track that one is on.

·

Learning to know who

to trust among people also is an important skill.

For money management

is a skill which is like any other skill. Some are good at it and others are

not. For those who are not it is important to at least tell who you can trust

in your monetary affairs.

Or in other personal

decisions, many times the nearest and dearest to us advise things based on

their own hatreds and prejudices without our own interest in mind. Someone

close to me was advised by people he trusted to leave me and found himself in a

whole lot of trouble for several years.

I myself trusted

rabbis more than my parents and have found myself years later striped of my

wife and children and no means of making an honest living except what I learnt

from my parents.

·

Leonardo De Vinci

thought people are meant to live balanced lives. It is true that each person

has a special area of talent, but each person should try to be balanced by

doing physical activity every day and learning different subjects. I think in

the way that God made us that we can only do so much of any one thing and then

we need to go on and the next day we can come back to it.

Thus, in values also.

Though on the surface it might seem there are different duties a person must

do, and they conflict, I think in fact there is no conflict for somehow only

one of the options is the right one and the task is to choose the right one.

Leonardo himself

developed different aspects of his personality in science and art and physical

activity. They say he was so strong that he could crush nuts in his hand.

·

Here is something to

bear in mind as you go through life from the author Herodotus: The exceeding

good fortune of Polycrates did not escape the notice of Amasis, who was much

disturbed thereat. When therefore his successes continued increasing, Amasis wrote

him the following letter, and sent it to Samos. “Amasis to Polycrates thus

sayeth: It is a pleasure to hear of a friend and ally prospering, but thy

exceeding prosperity does not cause me joy, forasmuch as I know that the gods

are envious. My wish for myself and for those whom I love is to be now

successful, and now to meet with a check; thus, passing through life amid

alternate good and ill, rather than with perpetual good fortune. For never yet

did I hear tell of anyone succeeding in all his undertakings, who did not meet

with calamity at last, and come to utter ruin. Now, therefore, give ear to my

words, and meet thy good luck in this way: bethink thee which of all thy

treasures thou valuest most and canst least bear to part with; take it,

whatsoever it be, and throw it away, so that it may be sure never to come any

more into the sight of man. Then, if thy good fortune be not thenceforth checkered

with ill, save thyself from harm by again doing as I have counselled.”

·

Equilibrium is a

major principle in life. What one does to improve his situation invariably

changes the balance. One can't foresee the consequences of that change. But if

the situation one is in is in any way livable, then to change it is probably a

mistake. Moving from one place to another changes a balance and should never be

done unless absolutely necessary. Also, in every person there is a balance of

talent. If smart in one thing invariably he will be foolish in another. The

most talented of people tend to lack simple common sense

·

I have become

convinced that most people tend to be the exact opposite of what they appear.

·

Without a college

education one is doomed to slavery. This is why the Jewish people when they

came to America instinctively worked like dogs to make sure their children

would get a college education. They had experienced enough slavery in Eastern

Europe to want out.

Now we have all

forgotten this and seek to be enslaved again to middle class boredom and

looking for some religious or political answer to the world’s problems. But

this is doomed to failure since every solution to one problem just brings

another and who is to say if the new problem won't be worse?

·

When going to the

Ukraine I asked a friend what to take with me. And they said, “Take as little

as possible [in order to open yourself up to new things Hashem may want for

you.” I then asked about the sleeping bag. She said, “You are going to the

Ukraine. You MUST take a sleeping bag." [I see now how wise that was. For

I thought I was going to a place that was heated. Then when I left and found

myself here in another place, I needed to wear several shirts, a sweater, a

jacket, then to go into the sleeping bag and then put two woolen blankets over

myself. All this is indoors. And this winter is mild. I remember winters when

one could literally not go outside for more than two minutes.]

My feeling is that

this relates to the motto of the Boy Scouts, “Be Prepared.” For to be prepared

for everything is impossible. And obviously I could not take everything I

needed.

But the idea is

first:

1.

Take as little as possible.

2.

In the extra space left take small things that don't take

up room but may come in handy.

·

I think there are

some people who give up too quickly and others who don't give up even when they

should. You should try to know yourself and see which type you are so that you

will know how to compensate. If you are the type who gives up on things too quickly

you will know the next time you want to give up that you should stick it out.

·

The lacks in our

character are precisely placed there so that we will refer all those areas to

God and come to him in prayer asking for help. For even though we need His help

in everything we do, those areas are made specially to remind us of our limitations

and to run to God for help.

·

“In

the course of regeneration, when man is being made spiritual, he is continually

engaged in combat, for before regeneration cupidities have the dominion,

because the whole man is composed of mere cupidities and the falsities thence

derived. During regeneration these cupidities and falsities cannot be

instantaneously abolished, for this would be to destroy the whole man, such

being the only life which he has acquired; and therefore evil spirits are

suffered to continue with him for a long time, that they may excite his

cupidities, and that these may thus be loosened, in innumerable ways, even to

such a degree that they can be inclined by the Lord to good, and the man be

thus reformed. In the time of combat, the evil spirits, who bear the utmost

hatred against all that is good and true, that is, against whatever is of love

and faith toward the Lord-which things alone are good and true, because they

have eternal life in them - leave the man nothing else for food but what is

compared to the vegetable and the green of the herb; nevertheless the Lord

gives him also a food which is compared to the herb bearing seed, and to the

tree in which is fruit, which are states of tranquility and peace, with their

joys and delights; and this food the Lord gives the man at intervals.” --

Swedenborg

·

“Unless

the Lord defended man every moment, yea, even the smallest part of every

moment, he would instantly perish, in consequence of the indescribably intense

and mortal hatred which prevails in the world of spirits against the things

relating to love and faith toward the Lord. The certainty of this fact I can

affirm, having been now for some years (notwithstanding my remaining in the

body) associated with spirits in the other life, even with the worst of them,

and I have sometimes been surrounded by thousands, to whom it was permitted to

spit forth their venom, and infest me by all possible methods, yet without

their being able to hurt a single hair of my head, so secure was I under the

Lord’s protection. From so many years' experience I have been thoroughly

instructed concerning the world of spirits and its nature, as well as

concerning the combat which those being regenerated must needs endure, in order

to attain the happiness of eternal life. But as no one can be so well

instructed in such subjects by a general description as to believe them with an

undoubting faith, the particulars will of the Lord’s Divine mercy be related in

the hi following pages.” -- Swedenborg

·

“In

time of desolation never to make a change; but to be firm and constant in the

resolutions and determination in which one was the day preceding such

desolation, or in the determination in which he was in the preceding

consolation. Because, as in consolation it is rather the good spirit who guides

and counsels us, so in desolation it is the bad, with whose counsels we cannot

take a course to decide rightly.” -- St. Ignatius of Loyola

·

Only when forced

should one move his location. Like Peretz (a friend) said on moving: Most of

the time for him it was from the frying pan into the fire.

·

In modern thought

spontaneity is considered good. In the meditations of Marcus Aurelius, we find

that one should not be careless. I figure that comes from the Stoic point of

view.

·

Sometimes one finds

himself attracted to a group of people considering them cool or with it in some

way. Chekov has a story about one such person that fell in such a way. I figure

this must be one of the tricks of the evil side to pull us away from our center

of equilibrium. (Showing us other lifestyles and making them look attractive to

us.

·

Don't do things

contrary to your destiny, for those things can take you away from your destiny.

·

Don't get

top

heavy. Learning every day is good in balance with

other things.

This applies to

civilization also.

There needs to be a

balance and equilibrium between the mind, heart and body. This is why Roman law

became the basis for western society. It was meant to be natural law: just

enough to provide for the need but not more.

This is the same

reason why the human brain works. It is just large enough to work. If it got

too big the balance would be thrown off and it would cease to work. This is the

reason Dinosaurs with larger brains never developed.

·

Since the head and

the heart are almost always in opposition, and heart is more in tune with the

Divine, if you know what your head is saying but don't know what your heart

says then do the opposite of the head. What makes sense -- don't do. The reason

is if the heart and head were together then you would know what your heart

says. Since you don't know there is therefore a conflict, and for sure your

heart says something else and therefore it is not what the head says — but your

head and logic are drowning out the message from your heart.

·

Sometimes the naive

among us hears a friend promise us some type of favor. “Come live in our house

and all your needs will be provided.” We know why people take care of all the

needs of chickens. It is not any altruistic ideal of benefiting the chicken. But

when we receive the same invitation, we can be fooled. Here is how Zeno reacted

to such a proposal. “And when Demochares, the son of Laches, embraced him once,

and said that he would tell Antigonus, or write to him of everything which he

wanted, as he always did everything for him, Zeno, when he had heard him say

this, avoided his company for the future.”

[]

Learning is a Jewish

principle. The importance of this is because the essence of life is to create.

But how can one create something new if one doesn't take in and incorporate

within himself something new daily?

But not just

anything

new. The less one understands the better for as Swedenborg says, holiness

dwells only in ignorance… This means, one should learn, not to know, but to

fulfill he commandment of learning. Then, if knowledge does enter, it doesn't

hurt since it is all on the level of ignorance — because one is serving God and

attached to God to whom all knowledge is ignorance.

Also, the knowledge

one learns should not be man-made. It must be some explanation of how God's

creation works. Engineering is OK, so is politics. But not man made laws,

except if with the direction of discovering the “natural law”.

Artificial sciences

are called outer wisdoms by Rabbi Nachman and are harmful.

[]

Look at every

obstacle as an opportunity in a different direction, i.e., instead of opposing

the obstacle see if perhaps it is not just a subtle hint to do something

different. It is not always a virtue to oppose evil. You have to know what you

are up against.

See the attitude of

an Athenian general after Athens learnt a hard lesson from the disaster in

Sicily:

Accordingly,

they resolved to relieve it the next morning. Meanwhile Phrynichus, the

Athenian commander, had received precise intelligence of the fleet from Leros,

and when his colleagues expressed a wish to keep the sea and fight it out,

flatly refused either to stay himself or to let them or anyone else do so if he

could help it. Where they could hereafter contend, after full and undisturbed

preparation, with an exact knowledge of the number of the enemy’s fleet and of

the force which they could oppose to him, he would never allow the reproach of

disgrace to drive him into a risk that was unreasonable. It was no disgrace for

an Athenian fleet to retreat when it suited them: put it as they would, it

would be more disgraceful to be beaten, and to expose the city not only to

disgrace, but to the most serious danger. After its late misfortunes it could

hardly be justified in voluntarily taking the offensive even with the strongest

force, except in a case of absolute necessity: much less than without compulsion

could it rush upon peril of its own seeking. He told them to take up their

wounded as quickly as they could and the troops and stores w

hich they had brought with

them and leaving behind what they had taken from the enemy's country, in order

to lighten the ships, to sail off to Samos, and there concentrating all their

ships to attack as opportunity served. As he spoke so he acted; and thus, not

now more than afterwards, nor in this alone but in all that he had to do with,

did Phrynichus show himself a man of sense. In this way that very evening the

Athenians broke up from before Miletus, leaving their victory unfinished, and

the Argives, mortified at their disaster, promptly sailed off home from Samos.

— Pelopennesian War, Thucydides

·

The problems that

occupy our minds are never the things we should be thinking about. They are

like the world on the verge of the dark ages that was involved in trivial

theological disputes not seeing the abyss they were hanging over. What really

matters is to search God.

·

In my ideology,

kindness is the highest virtue. But when I go to help someone, it always wastes

time from other things that I do for myself, but incidentally help others also.

I don't know the meaning of this: perhaps it is obstacles from the evil side trying

to prevent me from being a good person. I am mystified by this so don't read

this thinking I have any answer. For I firmly believe in helping others. But

why is it that when I do it never works, and on the occasions that it works, it

turns out it really was not needed in the first place. Could this be a hint

that I should go about my own business and let God run the world?

·

If you see a person

making it their business to convince others that their religion is incorrect,

be assured that person is insane.

·

The more you hate

someone, the more you need not say anything negative about them - for

afterwards how will you ask them for forgiveness? For the sin of slander, one

loses his entire portion in the Future World. So, without that forgiveness, one

is in deep trouble.

This is besides the

fact that all one's good deeds go to the one slandered. So, despite the fact

that these motivations are selfish, it still is worthwhile not to lose your

eternity.

The most powerful

prayer you can say is to name those that have hurt you and release them from

guilt.

·

I am afraid of the

evil eye and try to avoid it. I am ultra-sensitive and hurt when people stare

at me or give me ugly glances. But I believe that this in itself is sometimes a

gift from God and a cause for blessing: but I don't treat every insult as a complement.

Rather I try to see if perhaps there may be some element of truth in what the

other person is saying. And despite the fact that they intend only to hurt me,

I don't look at the intention but at what in me needs correcting.

·

I have heard that

women are uniquely sensitive about their bodies. Because of this it is proper

that sex should be as wild as possible, to relax the woman. There is a

hierarchy of principles in the Torah. Kindness is the highest principle (to

Rabeynu Yerucham of the Mir Yeshiva in Poland). I think attachment to God is

the highest principle, but that kindness is the main way to come to that.

So, despite the fact

that the Shulchan Aruch advises much restraint in sex, I think this was not

meant in a case where the female needs to be encouraged to let go, in order

that she should come to a state of relaxation and a feeling of well-being. The

greatest kindness is to give to another person that which they need. Everyone

needs to feel good about themselves.

I think even bad

people need to feel good to repent. Bad people don’t repent usually just

because they don't feel good. However, Rabbi Nachman says differently. He says

at once when one decides to repent, it is a sin to be depressed, i.e., before

that one should be depressed in order to come to repentance. But this doesn't

mean what we call depression, rather it means a low spirit.

There is a problem

being accepted as a well-liked member of a community or a leader: this brings

down a person to the level of the people and tends to rid one of free will and

free thought. So, it is necessary to have friends that will criticize you.

Anyway, don't get semicha, and don't be a rabbi. The problems are pride, and

lack of free will, after one is accepted. Also, it was taken for granted, in

good yeshivot, that a rabbi never knew Torah - for if he really could learn why

did he feel it necessary to get

semicha

?

·

There was an American

hero that had a motto never to retreat from an enemy. I have noticed a similar

characteristic in Israelis. In fact, I heard of two fellows, one American and

the other an Israeli who somehow their wives had been complaining about them to

some rabbis. The first group called in the American on some pretext and corned

him with the divorce documents. He thought if he were a nice guy his wife would

return. He signed the documents and that was the end of him and his family.

The Israeli was called in on a similar pretext and faced with the same

situation. He walked up to the table and tore up the documents. He is still

happily married, and his children are all going to religious schools. [He

himself is totally secular which was the reason his wife wanted the divorce. He

is still totally secular.]

·

The worst enemy is

dissipation. I know there are lots of good things to do. If one doesn't watch

out, this enemy will get him. It is good for this reason to do your stuff in

the morning. Later in the day you need to relax. I think that as soon as one

wants to do something

good there

arises a

conspiracy, not to stop him but to waste his time.

·

The sages say when

one accepts the yoke of torah the other yokes of mundane things are taken from

him. I heard from David Bronson that he actually experienced this.

·

The problem with

doing everything perfectly is getting nothing right. It is the same with being

too smart. The sages tell us that the mother of Shmuel the prophet prayed that

her son would be of average intelligence.

I always noticed that

the really smart kids in high school just never seemed to see the simplest

common sense things, and this is in fact the reason why I have spent time

explaining a system of learning of just saying each page or paragraph twice and

going on. Because people I think are all very close in intelligence. Those who

excel probably just have better study habits.

·

I noticed my friend Barbara

never minded confronting evil head on. She would confront her own teachers if

she felt they were acting wrong. She told me instead of not saying anything to

warn someone from a bad group rather go into detail: for that person joined the

group for a reason.

All you can do is to

go into detail in order to help person be careful if and when the warning signs

do arrive. She went to

gehinom

to sing praises to God.

As for myself, I have

avoided evil. This is based a lot on the sages that say not to start up with

evil people. I admire Barbara’s approach, but she always suffered afterwards.

After she had been through some confrontation I would go to her apartment and

let me tell you — she was so wiped out she literally couldn't move to clean a

thing, this is a person who is usually clean to the n

th

degree.

·

The stoics held that there

is nothing between good and evil, virtue and sin. Either one is totally good or

totally evil.

This point of view is

helpful in considering whether to marry someone. Instead of the customary point

of view of looking at everyone as having some good and some bad, consider that

they are one or the other and try to decide.

This is in fact the

Torah point-of-view since to the Rambam, when one is mostly good the evil is

nullified. So, you really only end up with people that are totally one or the

other.

Now one problem in

the religious world is that objective good and evil get mixed up with ritual.

Religious people tend to judge virtue based on how one is in some rituals. But

on the other hand, the good thing about torah is that it teaches that there is

an objective good and evil. This, however, in recent years, has ceased to be so

— in that the religious now tend to believe in moral relativism but still hide

in religious looking clothing.

·

There is such a thing

as putting oneself in God's hands. It is not the same as doing nothing. Nor is

it seeking advice from dreams, angels, saints or even one's own intuition. It

is actively doing nothing until that very second that God makes one know.

·

The advice that

occurs to one when he has gone out into a field to ask God advice is many times

different than what he thinks to himself in his usual environment [even when he

prays in his normal environment]. The question is which of these to follow. It

seems to me that neither is wrong but that that which is received outdoors in seclusion

is better.

·

The subject of advice

which comes to one suddenly is subject to a debate between Rav Nachman and Rabbi

Yisrael of Koznitz. Rabbi Yisrael said, a mitzvah that comes suddenly is

usually from the evil side. Rabbi Nachman, in the story of the Simpleton, has

the simple one getting a message from heaven and immediately dropping everything

to follow it.

·

Avoid court-holders

[the type you find at every party]. Everyone gathers around them clinging to

their every word of “wisdom”. They are invariably those who know nothing — this

includes this includes rabbis.
