Chapter 12 - Decisions

The Greeks said know

yourself. Perhaps meaning, “Know your lacks and your good traits. Then you can

compensate. In place of lacks you can find friends that can do that part of

your life that you can't take care of. In the good traits you will know what to

concentrate upon.”

·

Trust in God and

simplicity. If you don't know something, then it is because Vesikin Vesikin God

doesn't want you to know. If He wants you to know, he knows how to let you

know. So, trust means do nothing until God shows you clearly His will. To trust

in God, you need to learn to live with doubt until God solves the problem. But

this is not automatic. Rather one needs actively to put oneself in God's

presence and then I believe that God will take care of him.

·

a.

Reconnaissance.

b.

Independent Confirmation, [from a source other than

yourself].

c.

Be Prepared.

d.

Verify yourself if it really is like you heard or think.

e.

Bible.

·

In America, people

pay a salary to what is called a personal coach or someone whose job it is to

get your life to be the best that it can be. This is what used to be a friend

[or rabbi], but nowadays with that gone one needs to pay a personal coach. If that

is a bit expensive a true friend is good to have. [So apparently the idea of

advice from a friend or mentor is not a totally negative concept as I write in

note {6}.

·

Situational

Awareness: This is something that fighter pilots need to stay alive. It is

being aware of the whole situation around oneself, not just what is in front of

us. This is the reason non-predators have their eyes on the side of their

heads. [Predators have eyes in front of their head like people]. In life

sometimes I am aware something is wrong in a certain place or situation, but I

can't put my finger on it. So, to some degree I have this awareness but in

general I have not acted on it, preferring to think everything is rosy and all

people are loving. Well, they are not and if you sense something is wrong, head

on out of there as fast as you can.

·
