
up room but may come in handy.

·

I think there are

some people who give up too quickly and others who don't give up even when they

should. You should try to know yourself and see which type you are so that you

will know how to compensate. If you are the type who gives up on things too quickly

you will know the next time you want to give up that you should stick it out.

·

The lacks in our

character are precisely placed there so that we will refer all those areas to

God and come to him in prayer asking for help. For even though we need His help

in everything we do, those areas are made specially to remind us of our limitations

and to run to God for help.

·

“In

the course of regeneration, when man is being made spiritual, he is continually

engaged in combat, for before regeneration cupidities have the dominion,

because the whole man is composed of mere cupidities and the falsities thence

derived. During regeneration these cupidities and falsities cannot be

instantaneously abolished, for this would be to destroy the whole man, such

being the only life which he has acquired; and therefore evil spirits are

suffered to continue with him for a long time, that they may excite his

cupidities, and that these may thus be loosened, in innumerable ways, even to

such a degree that they can be inclined by the Lord to good, and the man be

thus reformed. In the time of combat, the evil spirits, who bear the utmost

hatred against all that is good and true, that is, against whatever is of love

and faith toward the Lord-which things alone are good and true, because they

have eternal life in them - leave the man nothing else for food but what is

compared to the vegetable and the green of the herb; nevertheless the Lord

gives him also a food which is compared to the herb bearing seed, and to the

tree in which is fruit, which are states of tranquility and peace, with their

joys and delights; and this food the Lord gives the man at intervals.” --

Swedenborg

·

“Unless

the Lord defended man every moment, yea, even the smallest part of every

moment, he would instantly perish, in consequence of the indescribably intense

and mortal hatred which prevails in the world of spirits against the things

relating to love and faith toward the Lord. The certainty of this fact I can

affirm, having been now for some years (notwithstanding my remaining in the

body) associated with spirits in the other life, even with the worst of them,

and I have sometimes been surrounded by thousands, to whom it was permitted to

spit forth their venom, and infest me by all possible methods, yet without

their being able to hurt a single hair of my head, so secure was I under the

Lord’s protection. From so many years' experience I have been thoroughly

instructed concerning the world of spirits and its nature, as well as
