
For Colonel Simons,

the great principle was reconnaissance -- [check it out before you go in]. This

was the difference between when he went in to rescue the hostages in Iran and

being successful, while in a different rescue attempt by the army, it was unsuccessful.

But in the

frum

world

you hear things like Rav Sonenfeld getting married on the first one offered to

him whether she would be proper or not. Maybe this was OK for him, but this

isn't the same thing as trusting in God. Trusting in God means you trust in

God, but you act to the best of your ability in each situation while knowing

that the final result is in any case only dependent upon God's will.

·

Is the “good” advice

of some rabbis a trap to lead one to be their slave and give up on their free

will? Or is it perhaps to lead one into an unproductive life? Why did all the

frum/orthodox stay in Europe during the period of the Holocaust? Wasn't it because

their rabbis who had generally given them good advice, advised them one time

unwisely, i.e., not to flee when the Nazis rose to power?!

From 1933 until 1939

why did almost no religious Jews flee from Poland? It is only because rabbis

gave them good advice at various times, so they assumed that this time also

would be so. Is what we call the Divine spirit of some rabbis a trap? [To lose

one's free will? Why is it that when faced with a life decision you don't know

which way to jump? Isn't it that slowly you have allowed the rabbis to take

over your consciousness and now I can't get it back?

·

So, life decisions I

think must be made thus:

a.

Never ask advice from people or rabbis. For once you have

heard it, it makes an effect even if you decide to reject it later - and every

time you ask you give up a little bit of your free will.

b.

Never make a life decision under pressure emotional or

sexual needs.

c.

Find a way to relax, like Winston Churchill who made most

major decisions of World War II while lying in a bathtub.

d.

Like Barbara [a friend] said, “Find out.” Do the work

necessary to find out the right course of action. Don't assume things.

·

But my question is

does this apply to a rabbi who has always seems to be right? Perhaps he really

is wise?
