
Section II - Halachah

Chapter 1 - Principles of

Halacha

·

The

commandments of the Bible are forever (as it says in Deuteronomy 29:29). You

will find by hundreds of commandments that it says openly that they are forever

e.g., the Sabbath. The Talmud is meant to be the code of Jewish law. Therefore,

one is allowed to depend on any opinion there within the limits of what the

Talmud itself defines as law. For instance, if one is allowed to kiss his

sister or any relative, we find a disagreement. The authorities decide one way

but since the Talmud itself doesn't decide there is some possibility to be

lenient.

·

The

Rambam says we go by the majority only at the time of the Sanhedrin, but in a

time that there is no Sanhedrin, concerning biblical law we go by the stricter

opinion and concerning rabbinical law we go by the lenient opinion - even

against a majority opinion (this is against the Shach in Yore Dea, however one

can depend on the Rambam.) We see however that the Rambam didn't use this

principle in Mishna Torah. I think perhaps this is because he held the Gemarah

has the category of the Sanhedrin. Only in issues which come up after the

Gemarah is this principle used, or when there is a disagreement as to what the

Gemarah's actual conclusions were.

·

The way

of judging an issue by majority of authorities is a statistical way coming from

the world of chaos and probability, while the way of revelation is from the

world of correction. So even if you have a tzadik like Rabbi Nachman who

reveals things based on his own revelation you still need to judge the issues

based on probability and statistics which is from world of chaos since the goal

is to put chaos and correction together.

·

Rabbi

Chayim Vital says one who makes a legal decision without the knowledge of the

mysteries of the Kabbalah can't make a correct legal decision. This doesn't

cancel the Talmud or Maimonides, but it limits their decisions to be in

accordance with prophets and kabbalists of Israel.

·

There are

things that God is strict about that the halacha permits and things which He

allows that the law prohibits. [It may take a bit of time and talent for the

earthly courts to get the law correctly for the general public, but even if

they would have it right, they still wouldn't have the law as it applies to

each individual correctly.] For instance, the law that a prophet who

transgresses the words of his own prophecy gets the death penalty applies to

each individual. One has what he knows in his heart to be the right intuition

but disobeys it because of advice from friend or even rabbis. Or for instance

resting on Shabbat: there are the 39 types of labor forbidden to everyone,

however the idea and enjoyment of Shabbat is a highly individual thing.

·

A

possible reason the Torah says a woman can't be a judge is that she will tend

to go against the male in a case involving a man and a woman while a male judge

will tend to be more impartial since men have a natural sexual attraction to

women but also a natural sympathy towards men since they are their own kind.

But women have no natural attraction to men in general (they simply aren't

turned on by the sight of a male), so they are automatically biased. (i.e.,

with men the two biases cancel out, but the women are left with only one bias).

·

Whether

or not the rabbis of the Talmud had the authority to make any laws at all is

the subject of a debate in Avot DeRabbi Nathan: “Make a fence around the Torah.

Make a fence around your words like God made a fence around his words, and Adam

made a fence around his words, and the Torah made a fence around its words

etc... What caused the woman to touch the tree? The fence that Adam made around

his words. Because of this The Rabbis said: ‘If a man makes a fence around his

words, he won't be able to keep his words.’ Thus, the Rabbis said, ‘a man

should not add to the things he hears.’ Rabbi Yose said, ‘Better 10 inches and

it stands than 100 yards and it falls.’ Thus, we find this to be the subject of

a debate. What is interesting to note is that in any argument of any rabbis

against Rabbi Yose the law is always like Rabbi Yose, but here the general opinion

of the Gemara is not like Rabbi Yose – here there was probably a majority

opinion against him.

·

The

Rambam gives the principles for the commandments: according to him they are not

possibilities but the definite reasons. Thus, according to Rabbi Shimon Bar

Yochai who holds that when the reason for a commandment doesn't apply the

commandment doesn't apply, there will be cases where one should not keep a

certain commandment. I think that this wouldn't just apply to specific laws

relating to the commandments but even specific situations. The Rambam makes it

clear that these situations do exist, for he says that the Torah was given for

the general situations but there will always come up situations where the

keeping of a law will negate the intention of the law. It seems to me that in

such a situation one should not keep the law, as the Sages said, “A sin for the

sake of God is greater than a mitzvah not for the sake of God.”

The

specific intentions of the Law the Rambam states are:

1)

To despise and reduce one's physical desires.

2)

Politeness

3)

Cleanliness in heart, actions, body and

dress. [

The Guide

III, 33] (The Rambam says in

The Guide

III, 49

that most of the mitzvot called “hukim” are to be a fence against the doctrines

of idolatry.

In volume

III chapter 31, he says that all the mitzvot were given for the following

reasons: to teach us some truth or remove some false opinion, to establish a

proper society, to stop wickedness, to train in good manners, and to warn

against bad habits.

In short, opinions, morals and social conduct.

From

these principles it should be clear what the intent of any specific mitzvah is,

and thus in the opinion of Rabbi Shimon [or Rabbi Yehuda to the Yerushalmi and

Sifri], when it doesn't apply. Now, it is interesting to note that there is no

disagreement in the gemara if in fact the reason for the mitzva not to take a

pledge from a widow is not to have to go back to her house every night to

return it, and thus cause to her a bad reputation. It is just that rabbi Yehuda

says you can't decide to limit the scope of the law because of the reason. So,

as to the fact that it is based on reason and to which reason there is no

disagreement. So, we see that it is not as if there is just God and then the

Law. Rather it is God — Reason, and logic — Law. As the Zohar say, Torah is the

shredding of the higher wisdom. Now, this idea doesn't disagree with the

Kabbalah that gives deeper significance to the laws, for the ideal significance

of the Kabbalah is contained within the logic, i.e., in our case, not to give

her [the divine presence] a bad name [falling into exile] among her neighbors

[the higher worlds].

Chapter 2 – Prayer

·

One

should not cover his head for prayer, for the reason the Sages give for

covering the head is that people don't stand before a king with their head

uncovered. Nowadays one can't stand before a king or with his head

covered

and it is a sign of disrespect to do so, so all the more so one should not do

so in front of God. In Tractate Soferim [Chapter 14, Halachah 15] (which is the

root for the law of wearing a head cover to the Gra it says ‘One who is not

wearing shoes or whose garments are torn or whose head is not covered is

allowed to lead the congregation in prayer up until the 18 blessings. Some say

only one who is not wearing shoes or whose garments are torn but one whose head

is uncovered is not allowed to. He is not allowed to say the Divine Name...

However, to both opinions he can translate but he can't read the Torah scroll

for the congregation and lead the congregation for the 18 blessings.” Wearing

one at any other time is certainly not required. And that was at the time when

it was a sign of respect to wear one in front of a king. Now it is a sign of

disrespect. [As the Targum Onkulus says they went out of Egypt with uncovered

heads.] However, the Gemara itself does say one shouldn't walk four steps

without one's head covered, so even though the Rambam holds that is only for a

Wise person still this Gemara does imply that it is a good thing for everyone.

·

One should

endeavor to recite the Shema immediately upon rising, before sunrise, in

accordance with the view of Rabbi Eliezer. The Rambam rules that the halachah

follows the Sages—who permit its recitation until the end of the third hour of

the day—only in a case where one has not managed to say it before sunrise.

Nonetheless, one is obligated to strive to say it at that earlier time

.

At night, one

should wait until the time established by Rabbenu Tam, approximately ninety

minutes after sunset (according to some opinions, seventy-two minutes). This,

however, does not imply that one must don tefillin or recite the Amidah at that

moment; those may be performed until the conclusion of the day

.

In the

teachings of Kabbalah, a greater emphasis is placed upon rising at midnight to

engage in Torah study. In matters where the Kabbalistic tradition and the legal

authorities differ, one should follow the Kabbalistic path. It is told that

when the Baal HaTanya was asked about this, he affirmed that one should indeed

act in accordance with Kabbalah. When the questioner objected, noting that the

Shulchan Aruch HaRav instructs to follow the legal authorities, the Baal

HaTanya replied: “That is what the legal authorities wrote.”

·

To some

opinions brought in the

Shulchan Aruch

one who is not married is not

required to wear teffilin. Yet because the Baal Shem Tov in his will did emphasize

saying the Shema exactly as the commandment was meant to be I think one should

try to do so. [The five things mentioned in the will of the Baal Shem Tov were:

a.

Learning books of ethics every day.

b.

Carefulness in keeping Shabbat.

c.

Carefulness in saying the Shema.

d.

Going to the mikvah for with the kabalistic

intentions.

e.

Doing a kindness for someone every day.

·

To Rav

Yehuda in the name of Shmuel saying the Shema is a rabbinical mitzva. It seems

the authorities hold it is Biblical because of the Gemara in Sucah. However, it

would seem that since Brachot is the main place of the subject we ought to

follow the conclusion of the Gemara there that it is rabbinical.

·

Grace

after bread is possible to shorten. For the first blessing only the first and

last sentence are required. [As the Sages said if one says “blessed is the

Master of this bread”, he had fulfilled his obligation. However, since a

blessing that starts and ends with a blessed can't be changed from that form,

one must say as I have said.] For the second one needs to mention only the

covenant and the Torah and then the final blessing. For the third one, one

needs to mention only the kingdom of David and the last blessing. The fourth

needs only the three mentions of goodness and the three mentions of abundance.

·

The short

prayer

Havinanu

in

Brachot

can be substituted for the 18

blessings for the evening and afternoon service. The

Halachah

is like

Rabban Gamliel only in so much that one must

pray

the entire

Shemone Esre

once a day.

·

It seems

to me that it is better not to say the blessing to curse the slanderers since

it doesn't do any good to curse ones enemies and the curse just returns on

oneself if he is not worthy on any future day.

·

Don't

pray for a true soul mate for the Rambam says there is no such thing [in the

eight chapters (and Rabbi Nachman agrees). So, you just won't get married at

all since there is no true mate. Rather man has complete free will to choose

who to marry. Only in what happens to one he has no free will, not in things

one does.

Chapter 3 - Shabbat

·

The

reason the halacha is like Rabbenu Tam that the night starts 90 or 72 minutes

after sunset is that the Shulchan Aruch and the Magen Abraham, the majority of

the Rishonim (1st authorities), Rav Sadia Gaon, and the Arizal all hold like

him. (The Radvaz even shows that the Rambam holds like Rabbanu Tam) (72 minutes

is if a mil is 18 minutes. 96 is if it is 24 like the Rambam says in the Perush

HaMishna. The Chasam Sofer says it is 22.5 so that it comes out 90 minutes. The

Maharam Shik brings many authorities like son of the Rambam that say the world

is round and he assumes that disproves Rabbenu Tam, yet we find Tosphot

Rid in

Shabbat says openly that the world is round and

yet explains Rabbenu Tam accordingly.

Besides

this also there is the fact that medium stars don't come out until about 60 min

after sunset, and stars continue to come out until about 3 hours after sunset.

Now to know the medium sized number of a set of numbers, you have to see all

the numbers first. Similarly, to know what a medium star looks like you have to

see all the stars first (that the human eye can see). Then after you have seen

all the stars at midnight in a place where the small stars aren't obstructed by

city lights, like in a desert or the mountains, and you have judged 3 medium

stars, then the second night you will find that they don't become visible until

about 60 minutes after sunset.

This is

according to the majority of the authorities, but I don't understand why the

Gemara in Shabbat and the Gemara in Pesachim can't just be disagreeing, and

both be talking about the first

shkia

(sunset). Even though most

authorities don't go for this kind of thinking, but the Rambam does. He doesn't

believe the entire Shas has to be self-consistent [Miguel de Unamuno said, “If

a person never contradict's himself, it must be that he says nothing.” Thus, it

would seem to me a simple explanation that the Rambam in Hilchot Shabbat is not

like Rabbanu Tam even though the Radvaz says it is. So, I tend to think it is

better to be strict and accept Shabbat at the first sunset but not do work on

Saturday night until 90 minutes.

·

Carrying

in a public domain is forbidden.  But one can depend on Rashi and the  Tosphot

that a public domain is only one in which 600,000 people travel through daily.

(In a case of need one can depend on a lenient opinion even in a biblical

matter.) [However, the Rambam doesn't hold this way, so it is preferable not to

carry even in the place where there is an

eruv

which is worthless if it

actually is a public domain. To the Rambam in fact even a lonely dirt road

between two cities is a public domain Biblically and carrying there four steps

is against the Torah. However, I do believe that one can depend on Rashi and

Tosphot whose opinion is brought in the Shulchan Aruch as a “Some say”.

Apparently, Rabbi Yoseph Karo himself didn't want to make a final decision in

this case. Perhaps because the Rambam holds you don't need 600,000 and the Rosh

holds you do, and the Rif isn't clear. So, the Beit Yoseph couldn't use his

normal method of using the majority of these three authorities. But if we

continue his method of going in that case to the other authorities then the

majority

do hold

by Rashi.

·

Playing a

musical instrument on the Sabbath is permitted. People in general are not

experts in making musical instruments, so the reason for the rabbinical decree

doesn't apply (i.e., that people might fix the instrument if it breaks.). This

is in accordance with the opinion of the Rashbam and Raavad that once the

reason for a decree doesn't exist the decree is automatically null and void.

And even to the Rambam one can apply this (as it says in the book

Or Zarua

Le Tzadik

of Rabbi Zadok HaCohen in Chapter 2). The reason he gives there

is the same as the Rosh in the beginning of

Avoda Zarah

. The amazing

thing is that the Rosh assumes a law made by the Sanhedrin only applies in the

time and place it was meant for.

·

It is

allowed to use electricity on Shabbat. It is not fire. Nor is it Tikun Mana.

(Each time you turn on your TV, you are not making a new TV set). However, one

is not allowed to do any type of labor with it — like cooking.

·

One is

allowed to write on the computer on the Shabbat since the letters are not

Ashurit

(Hebrew script) and the letters are not stored in the viable form. So, this is

a case of two rabbinical decrees — one against the other — and therefore

allowed. Drawing on the computer on Shabbat however is forbidden.

[The

Shulchan Aruch says that to purchase land in Israel, one is allowed write up

the documents on the Shabbat — since he is writing in a different language than

Hebrew. However, the fact that it is a different language wouldn't be enough

since that is forbidden rabbinically. However, the rabbinical prohibition is permitted

in this case.]

·

Paper

money is allowed to be handled on the Sabbath since it isn't in the category of

what the Gemarah calls “maot” [coins] it is rather in the category of Business

documents which one isn't allowed to read. (This is like the Rambam. However

many other Rishonim hold business documents are muktzah.) The only permission

to handle coins that I know of is Rashi on page 143a of Shabbat that the bones

there are “hard and not fit for a dog” and rav Nachman in the gemara says that

is the opinion of Beit Hillel. [There is the other Stam Mishna on page 142b,

which obviously holds coins are muktza — so we have

stam

against

stam

.]

·

Brushing

teeth on the Shabbat with toothpaste is permitted. The melachah where some

people get the idea that it is prohibited from is the melachah of smoothing

dirt or some substance over a surface like a stove to cover it up which has

nothing to do with brushing teeth.

·

Things

that are forbidden on the Shabbat sewing cooking [heating food to over 160

Fahrenheit] carrying anything from an area surrounded by three walls to a

public domain where 600,000 people pass daily. To the Rambam a public domain is

any road that is 16 amot [32 feet] wide even if that many people don't pass

daily. Writing in Hebrew [I imagine the old Ivri script is also forbidden since

the Gemara says the Torah was given in that script. The Torah was given in Ivri

script but in the Hebrew language. Eventually the Jewish people decided on the

Ashuri script. Some Medieval authorities think that this Gemara isn't literal

and want to say that the Torah was given in Ashuri script, but it seems to me

that it is about as clear as you can get.]. Carrying anything in a public

domain four amot [8 feet] [Clothing and jewelry that is worn is permitted.

Separating the chaff from the wheat.

·

It is

forbidden to go to the mikvah on Friday  afternoon since that is the time the klipot

gather to try to come into holiness and the place they do this is the

mikvah.For this reason it is forbidden to pray in a synagogue which is the

place of the klipot in general since the klipot try to find the places of

holiness and to enter people that go there.

Chapter 4 - Festivals

·

According

to Abayee, the second day of the festival is not a rabbinical law, but from the

doubt that the exiles had about the day they were extra stringent on

themselves. We hold this way in Halachah and therefore in places where the

messengers from the Sanhedrin in Jerusalem can reach by the fifteenth of the

month, we only do one day of the festival… Now there are airplanes so

automatically there is no reason to do the second day of the festival. [This

however is only to Abayee but to Rav Asi it is a Rabbinical law.] Now it seems

to me that this could apply to Rosh Hashanah. We can't depend on our

calculations, but after the Sanhedrin sanctifies the new moon a simple phone

call or e-mail from Israel, could tell us when the new moon was. Now even

though the Cuttim could hack in to the computer still the Sages never made it a

law that you can't depend on

other

direct knowledge

from Israel. They did say you have to know the messenger, but couldn't you know

the person on the phone too?! Thus, it seems to all the halachic authorities

that go by Abayee that there is no second day of the festival. However, the

Yerushalmi

in

Eruvin

says the second day of Rosh Hashanah is a law from the

prophets, and the

Zohar

also is pretty clear about this. So, I think we

still have to keep two days of Rosh Hashanah.

·

On Yom

Kippur one is allowed to eat the amount ½ of an average egg every 4 minutes. If

you go by the Noda   BeYehuda that would be the size of a full egg since he

said that the eggs nowadays are half the size that the eggs the Talmud used to

measure things. I don't recommend using this opinion to depend on. However,

drinking is a different story. The amount one is allowed to drink is very

small, i.e., the amount one can hold in one cheek of his own mouth. This is

less than a teaspoon. However, to the Raavad one can drink this every 10

seconds. I think one can depend on this.

·

The

Gemarah says, “One who reads the Megillah between the other writings (Bibles

with pages like our Bibles) has not fulfilled his obligation but this is only

if he read it in a congregation but not individually.” That is, if he reads it

at home for himself or his family he has fulfilled his obligation [see the

Mordechai at the end of Megilah.]

Chapter 5 - Kashrut

·

The

Rashba in a

tshuva

was asked about a certain food that was specifically

mixed with something not Kosher but the amount of the non-Kosher stuff in it

was less than

[IMAGE: image008.gif]

. He wrote that it is

permitted. This gets rid of the need for a stamp of Kashrut on a lot of

products.

·

The

Gemara in Avoda Zara says that the cheese of idolators is permitted and this is

brought down as the halachah by the Rif Rambam Tur Shulchan Aruch. Concerning

the vessels, it was prepared in, the Rosh in Chulin Chap. 8, Sec. 42 says there

is nothing to worry about.

·

Meat

biblically does need to be prepared in a kosher manner. Chicken also needs to

be prepared in a kosher manner, but it is only by rabbinical decree.

Chapter 6 - Israel

·

One

should not go to live in Israel when it is surrounded by enemies who want to

destroy it. The issue is what to do when it will be peaceful. The Rambam and

Ramban hold that one should live there even before the Messiah comes. The

question however remains about the oath in the Song of Songs not to go up as a

wall which certainly seems to be the case in the creation of a state.

Experience

has shown that the oath is still in place since the end of the oath has been a

constant factor there (i.e., “I foreswear you not to go up as a wall and if

not, I will make your blood free for all.”)

·

The

Satmer Rav [Reb Yoel Teitelbaum] allowed his followers to live there as long as

they would have nothing to do with the State. But there is no person in Mea

Shearim who doesn't receive directly into his bank account money from the

Bituach Leumi. The religious, as much as they hate the non-religious there,

have exactly the same mentality. One can't help but be influenced by the place

he lives in.

·

There is

a tremendous flow of light there, for which reason it makes sense to visit, but

not to stay, since you are only theoretically a citizen but not actually. It is

the equivalent now of living in a foreign country with the disadvantage that

you think it's your people while actually they see you as you really are a

citizen of the country you came from.

·

Don't

give up your family, your religion, your mate, your friend, or your country so

fast. There may be times when it is necessary but then only under extreme

duress. Rabbi Abba hid from Rav Yehuda because he wanted to go to Israel, and

Rav Yehudah said that whoever goes to Israel is transgressing a positive

commandment as it says, “They will be brought to Babylon and there they will be

until I visit them says the Lord.” So, it's one of those things that some

authorities say is a good thing, others say it is not, and in such a case its

up to the individual to decide for himself. This is one of those vast areas in

Torah where free will is given but in orthodox theology there is complete

denial that these areas exist. This is one of the most essential points of this

book - the fact that there is such a thing as free will even within the

confines of the Torah- not free-will between good and evil but free will

between two equally good things - and what you should do is dependent on your

character and your individual mission in life. Within the strict confines of

the Talmud, it is possible to permit just about anything and to forbid just

about anything and both ways are correct, one way is from kindness and the

other from strict judgement. Many people are somewhere in the middle.

·

But the

truth is we have to rise above good and evil into the realm of truth and light

and beauty [which is the combination of truth and light-truth is the vessel

that contains light] by development of one's soul and raising it to that level.

·

The Torah

requires you to do what your inner heart says in order to bring up the good in

klipat noga and the darkness should disappear by the drawing of the light (here

there are two kinds of good, the good on the level of good and evil; permitted

and forbidden; pure and impure, and the other type of good on the level of higher

light where evil is just lack of that light).

·

Listening

to one's heart isn't just good advice, it is a positive commandment. For the

voice of the inner heart is small prophecy and a prophet is required to obey

his own prophecy whether he likes it or not.

God is

strict about the laws of the Bible, but that strictness isn't about keeping the

laws in the way they apply in general rather it's about how they apply to you

alone — as we see you singular is the noun of many of the commandments.

God's

code of law applies differently to each person.

[Two

other major things that God is strict about are keeping what you promise to do

for God in time of stress and emergency. He doesn't like it if when the danger

goes away, you forget about your promise. The other thing, is things revealed

in a dream]

·

I think

according to the way I see God runs the world that one should go to Israel for

extended visits, but always retain connection with the country of originates.

For instance, one can go for let's say three years and then come back. Then go

back again. The reason is that parts of the Divine presence are still in exile

so this connection with one's native land can't be broken even if he wants it

to. The holiness of the land of Israel is still covered by the

klipot

and the reason for this is that parts of the Divine Presence are still in exile

and needs its corrections in those places of exile.

·

The Arabs

don't recognize any fundamental right of the Jewish people to a state with

well-defined borders. There is no way that a faithful Muslim can accept that

since it is a basic principle of the Koran that land once under Islamic rule

can never be ruled again by non-Muslims and it is a sacred obligation of every

muslim to sacrifice his life to bring that land back to Muslim rule. Therefore,

there can never be peace until the Muslims give up the Koran.

·

[Shavuot

16a]

Rabbi

Eliezer held the first Holiness was only as long as the Jewish people stayed

there. This is the halacha to all authorities. Rav Huna held that the holiness

of the land of Israel needs to be established by a King and the Urim and Tumim.

The halacha is like Rav Huna to all the authorities. Tosphot puts these two

together and comes up with the idea that

teruma

and

maaser

nowadays is only rabbinical, not biblical. This means in plain english that to

this opinion the holiness of the land of Israel nowadays is only rabbinical,

not biblical. Thus, even if we concede to the Ramban that there is a biblical

mitzvah of living in Israel [which the Rambam doesn't hold with anyway] still

who says you can fulfill it nowadays by living in Israel. Biblically speaking

Israel isn't holy, only rabbinically, at least according to this last way of

thinking... However, there are opinions that it is Biblically holy also

·

None of

these reasons would be sufficient to cause one not to live in Israel except

that Jesus said when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies get up and leave.

This advice saved the original Jewish church in Jerusalem for at first the

Roman armies came and surrounded Jerusalem and then the general was called back

to Rome. At that point the church remembering Jesus' words got up and left for

Pele in Jordan. Then the Roman armies returned and destroyed Jerusalem. Even

though Jesus said this then it seems to me that the same advice would apply

today. [The idea of Jesus was that Israel doesn't have the light of political

stability. That light seems to be particular to America].

·

Certain

ideas don't resonate with certain groups of people. This is the reason for the

failure of American foreign policy throughout the world. Things like freedom of

the press or democracy simply don't resonate with Arabs. However, statements

like “Death to the Jews” or ideas of Arab hegemony over the entire region do.

It makes a great deal of sense to me that Israel has to deal with Arab

uprisings the same way Arab countries do within their own borders.

It is

true that with Arabs in countries like America ideas like freedom do resonate

more because they are becoming americanized, but in the Middle East the idea of

freedom has no emotional weight or moment of inertia. It can come and go as

easily as the breeze. Even though the land of Israel was promised to the Jewish

people God never receded his blessing to give it to Ishmael also who was born

after God promised to give it to Abraham's children. This is especially obvious

in the

Targum

where it says “children” in the plural. God only said that

he would take it from the Canaanites. And the blessing that Ishmael was

included in referred to the land from the Nile to the Euphrates. Which in fact

is occupied by the dependents of Ishmael. The later promises to the children of

Israel in the desert specified very definite boundaries quite limited to the

present region. And further it is even more interesting that the two present

tribes that the

Je

wish people consist of (Judah and Benjamin) are the most

populated areas of Israel (Jerusalem and the surrounding area).

Chapter 7 -

Marriage and Family

·

There are

five colors of blood that are unclean, and the other colors are pure even if

they are red. To the

Shulchan Aruch

, the Rambam and the Rif and the Rosh

and all the major authorities the women of today aren't

niddot

because

they don't have the feeling of the opening of the womb to let out blood.

Rav

Natrunai Gaon wrote that a

nidah

needs to go to the mikveh for marriage

relations only as a rabbinical decree. It is Biblical only if she goes into the

Temple in Jerusalem. So, we have a lot of doubts piling up one on the other all

in a case of what the major authorities consider to be not unclean in the first

place since there is no feeling of the opening of the womb. That is:

m

aybe it is a red that is clean. But if you'll say it is a

red that is not perhaps the law is like the majority of authorities that

without feeling it isn't unclean. But if you'll say the halachah is like the

Noda BeYehuda that a feeling of something flowing inside is also considered a

feeling, perhaps the law is like Rav Netrunai Gaon.

So, there

are a lot of reasons to say that after seven days she is pure immediately

without going to the mikvah. But its better to go to a natural body of water or

a

mikvah

if possible. Anyway, to have good children the sex should be

only on the Sabbath night (Friday night). After true midnight, after the

mikvah. This applies only to when it's possible for children to come from the

union. The main thing is for one to attach himself/herself to God while having

sex and not to fall into physicality, rather spirituality. [You could say also

that she doesn't even have to wait at all because of the first reasons]

·

A man can

marry two or more wives. The Cherem of Rabbenu Gershom was only until the year

1240 AD, as it says in the

Shulchan Aruch, Even Haezer (h

owever, in a

country where this isn't allowed, the marriages shouldn't be on paper). The

Gaon from Vilna said that to allow this would hasten the redemption for it

would bring into the world all the souls that need to be born before the

redemption and he said if he would have the strength, he would go from

congregation to congregation to tell them this.

·

A

swimming pool is a good

mikveh

if it's plugged up so that nothing leaks

- this is biblically speaking, but rabbinically, a natural body of water is

better.

·

Extra-marital

sex is allowed as long as it is in the boyfriend-girlfriend form, not one-night

stands.

A

mistress (i.e., girlfriend) is allowed according to the majority of the first

authorities (i.e., one need not be married to have sex - Ramban, Raavad, Rosh,

the Rambam according to the Ramban). There is

teshuva

of a later

authority that allows it. However, kabbalistically speaking, it’s better to be

married, because a mistress is on the level of the tree of knowledge of good

and evil upon which the klipot can take hold -- which they do anyway for

sensual sex even in marriage, but not being married makes the sex a bit more

prone to them.

·

Birth

control like the pill is allowed. The condom is forbidden according to Rabbenu

Tam. For the Gemara (Yevamot) says “three women have sex with a thick cloth in

order not to become pregnant” since it could result in their death if they

would become pregnant. Rashi explains they can put the towel there before sex.

Rabbenu Tam says after sex. Rashi says they are allowed to while Rabbenu Tam

says they must.

So far

for other women there is no permission to use a cloth at the time of sex. Those

that are looking for a permission want to explain the Ritvah as meaning the

towel is there at the time of sex and they must, implying that other women can.

(See the Tshuva of Rabbi Abraham Shneur Zalman and the New edition of the

Ritvah.) But the Ritva it says clearly that the three are required while others

are sometimes allowed, eg. before they are twelve years old, and others are

forbidden, e.g., girls older than twelve and a half. However, it seems to me to

ask a simple question according to the opinion of Rashi: If a condom would be

under the prohibition of spilling seed in vain then how could sex be allowed

even for those three women? Shouldn't they simply not have sex? It seems to me

from this that the prohibition isn't that of spilling seed but of the positive

command to be fruitful and multiply and that is why the whole discussion in

Tosphot revolves around that. So even though this whole thing is only like

Rabbi Meir against the majority opinion it does seem that there is someone to

depend on so I would have to allow it in case of necessity even though in all

probability it may be considered spilling seed in vain to the opinion of the

majority. [As the Gemara says,”Rabbi Meir is great enough to depend on in an

emergency”.]

·

A wife

isn't allowed to leave her husband except in a case where there is violence.

Just not liking him or his not being religious enough or too much

,

e

tc.,

are not valid

reasons. This is like the case which the Rema talks about when the husband was

playing cards and desecrated the Sabbath, etc., and the Rema said the wife has

no right to demand a divorce. Where the divorce is granted in

such a

case

by peer pressure brought upon the husband it’s a

get

mu'usa

(a forced divorce) which is invalid. It may be

advisable for people who don't want this problem to depend on the mistress

opinion and not have a full kiddushin.

·

Marriage

(kiddushin) is with two witnesses. However, according to the Ran [Rabbanu

Nissim] on Kiddushin 16b, the Rambam holds that kiddushin by

writing

doesn't need two witnesses.

·

Chupa is

bringing into the wife into the husband’s living quarters, which needs no

witnesses according to the Beit Shmuel in Shulchan Aruch. Ten people are

necessary only for the seven-blessings. Sex is allowed without the blessings.

The midrash says that angels are valid witnesses. At any rate, in conclusion,

to get married in a Kosher way without witnesses one needs to do the Kidushin

in writing and then to bring the bride into the husbands domain.

·

Oral sex

is forbidden since it is the equivalent of masturbation which the Zohar calls

the worst sin in the Torah and that he who does so goes to the bottom of hell

and stays there forever [unless he goes to the grave of Rabbi Nachman and says

there the ten psalms]. The girl that does that to a boy gets the same sin.

·

The

Gemara in Yevamot 76b says that King Solomon converted the daughter of

Pharaoh

. Tosphot  explains a later question of the Gemara to be

,

how could he have married her since she was a first

generation Egyptian; and answers that he didn't really marry her but “attached

himself to her for love” in the way of love, not in the way of marriage. Rashi

explains that the

Gemara

asks how can the verse call it marriage. And it

answers that he intended it to be in the way of prostitution. The

Maharsha

asks on

Rashi

then why was the

Gemara

forced to say she converted

since it could have been “in the way of prostitution” without it.

I think

Rashi's

reasoning must have been like this: A girlfriend is permitted to a King to all

opinions [the argument of the first authorities only applies to everyone else]

.

The

Gemara in Avoda

Z

ara

36 says that to

the Rabbis opinion, marriage with the seven Canaanite nations is forbidden; and

there was a later rabbinical decree to forbid all idolators.

To Rabbi

Shimon Bar Yochai all idolators are forbidden to live with in the way of

marriage from the Torah [but real

kidushin

isn't applicable] and the

Beit

Din

of

Shem

forbid even to live with them in the way of

prostitution.

It seems

clear to me that Solomon held like Rabbi Yehuda in

Bava Kama

115a since

he depended on the fact that the verse gave a reason why the king shouldn't

marry many wives, so he depended on the idea that if the reason doesn't apply

the law doesn't apply. Thus, the daughter of

Pharaoh

would have been forbidden to him even not in the way of marriage unless he

converted her.

Tosphot

it seems

holds like the

R

abbis. So, she would have been permitted to him without

converting, even as an idolator as long as it wasn't in the way of marriage or

publicly. Then the question of the Gemara begins only after he converted her.

[Incidentally Rabbi Shimon is the

Tana

in the

Yerushalmi

that

says Solomon didn't marry her but intended her as a “girlfriend” like Rashi.]

Rabbinical law only applies in a place and time that there is a possibility of

transgressing the biblical law

-

this is a

general principle throughout the whole Talmud

.

Specifically, reading

from a light on

Yom Kippur

is permitted because there is no fear one

will come to tilt. Rav sent to his non-Jewish friend in Babylon a present since

he knew that he wasn't an idolator and the Rosh and Ritva explain the laws

pertaining to non-Jews in general only pertain in places where there are

idolators. Thus

,

since the seven Canaanite

nations are no longer common among us [and to the Rambam no longer exist] to

the rabbis marrying even an idolator is permitted. To Rabbi Shimon marrying an

idolator is forbidden but marrying a non -Jew who isn't an idolator is

permitted.

Rabbi

Shimon held in general that there is a logical basis for each commandment and

in a case where that basis doesn't apply the commandment doesn't apply as in

Bava Kama 115a where he says one can take as a pledge the garment of a rich

widow since the law of the Torah of not taking the garment of a widow should

logically apply only to a poor widow for the reason given there in the Gemara.

This isn't the Halacha but there are many cases where we depend on Rabbi Shimon

in a case of need in other opinions of his and we say “Rabbi Shimon is great

enough to depend on in case of need” as in new grain before the Omer outside of

Israel.

·

The

Gemara (Nedarim 20) says, “The halacha is not like Rabbi Yochanan ben Dahavai,”

i.e., in everything he said or just the last things. [Rabbi Yochanan Ben

Dahavai said not to have sex face to back or to kiss in that spot or to talk at

that time or to look at that spot. Rabbi Yochanan said the halacha is not like

Rabbi Yochanan ben Dahavai, rather anything a person wants to do with his wife

he can do. Most authorities hold Rabbi Yochanan meant the halacha is not like

him only concerning face to back but the Rambam holds it refers to everything

he said.

It would

seem to me this may explain the Gemara in Nidda that the house of Munbaz had

sex during the day light and the Sages praised them because there was a

necessity in their case. If we are deferring to necessity perhaps that implies

a wider range of permission than the other authorities held from. However, from

here we don't get permission for sex with a light on at night which the Gemara

specifically forbids. [Obviously Yaakov Avinu held by this for otherwise why

didn't he know that she was Leah, not Rachel]?! Just sex in the daytime or the

other things referred to would be permitted. I think there may be some

permission for candle-light for other opinions outside the gemara for this the

Mishnah seems to imply explicitly. But I haven't found any such permission yet.

And even if I would, the Gemara clearly doesn't hold by it. I vaguely recall

some

Yerushalmi

that may have implied so much.

·

If the

mother or father transgress the Torah one is not obligated to honor them to the

Samag

and the

Tur

. The Rambam holds however that one is still

obligated to honor them. However, if they transgress knowingly the Torah, even

the Rambam would agree. The first category is not talking about wicked people

it's simply like citizenship: people that don't keep the Torah are not in the

category of “your people”; obligations the Torah imposes on citizens of the

Torah don't apply. But people that transgress the Torah knowingly are much

worse than not being citizens but are considered enemies of the state. I wish

to add that when the mitzvah of honoring one’s parents does apply, the

Yerushalmi calls it the

severest of the

severe of

all the

mitzvot

. I highly advice children to honor their parents no

matter how bad they may be, but if there is a case where the child simply needs

to protect himself from a destructive parent, then the child simply, should not

speak to the parent at all and live elsewhere.

·

The

modern ideas of women's lib are against the Torah. The woman is obligated by

the Torah to listen to her husband. He is not obligated to listen to her.

Though it is advisable to honor her, there is no obligation halachically

speaking. As Tosphot says in the beginning of Meshechta Ketubot, “The woman is

the field [property] of the husband, and the husband is not the field”. If she

refuses to do the three basic types of work and the five additional ones

according to the Rambam she is beaten by order of the court until she complies.

[Mishna Torah, Hilchot Ishut, 2].

If she

wants a divorce under these circumstances, then the divorce is invalid since it

is forced and not in accord with the law.  The reason for these laws is

simple.The male or female soul is not an entity in itself, and the popular idea

of individuality simply extinguishes the individual soul. There is no such

thing as a connection with another person as long as all that matters is one's

own benefit.

The idea

of each person respecting the individuality of the other is a lot of garbage.

The human soul is buried so deep that the only way of finding it and expressing

it is in connection with others. The expression of the individual can only

exist when it is part of the whole - for then the divine light has a whole

vessel to come upon. [And thus, the individual divine light that is the center

of her soul can only come if she is connected with him.]

·

The

fabric of society is the family. Since the bonds that bind husband and wife

together are dissolved in spirituality [Zei

r

and N

ukvah

], they

can't exist in physicality. Thus, America needs to return to being a

Judeo-Christian society. However, those spiritual bonds have been broken for

2000 years. The reason families have still survived is because of the righteous

that bind together the upper husband and wife. At any rate it would be logical

to assume from this that saying the midnight prayer would help to get one and

keep one married to his/her proper mate. But this is only possible not

necessarily so since in the general surrounding light those bonds may no longer

exist.

Chapter

8 -

Learning Torah

·

One is

not allowed to learn Torah having in mind to use it for a living. However, it

is proper to learn Torah and to trust in God to provide in a way that he

shouldn't be using the Torah or be receiving charity as both are forbidden.

Rabbi Israel Salanter held that it is allowed to be a rabbi (and to earn money

thereby) so it seems he depended on the

Tashbatz

even though it is

against the Rambam.

·

The

disagreement between the Rambam and the

Tashbatz

is if one is allowed to

learn Torah and depend on the idea that he will be given charity. The

Tashbatz

permits this. However, one is not allowed to say one verse or one word of Torah

in order to make money. This is forbidden to all opinions, and one that does so

has no portion in the next world. This includes the idea of taking a test in

order to show that one knows some subject in Torah in order to get a

kollel

paycheck.

·

Women are

not allowed to learn Torah as the

Rambam

,

Rif

,

Rosh

,

Tur

and

Shulchan Aruch

write. The Talmud quotes Rabbi Eliezer the Rabbi of

Rabbi Akiva: “It's better for words of the Torah to be burned than to be given

into the hands of women.”

·

There is

an obligation of saying the

parsha

[section] of the Torah of each week

twice and the Aramaic translation once. The way to do this is saying the

section of every day once and then the Aramaic during the week. Then on Shabbat

to say the entire

parsha

once. There is no need to say the Aramaic

before the second saying of the Hebrew.

Chapter 9 - Converts to

Judaism

·

To become Jewish a

woman needs only to go to the mikveh for the sake of

getting

married, or for

nida

, to clean herself from her cycle.

·

If a

non-Jewish woman goes into the mikveh or ocean for the sake of getting married

to a Jew or to purify herself she automatically becomes Jewish as Rav Asi said

in the Gemarah in Yevamot (the second way is as Rashi explains there).

·

Someone

not believing in God, or the Oral and Written Law is not Jewish, no matter if

their parents are Jewish.

—

Rambam in the Commentary to Sanhedrin

·

The

Rambam says in the Commentary on the Mishna in Sanhedrin that one who believes

in the 13-Principles-of-Faith is in the category of Israel and it is a mitzva

to love him even if he does all the sins he can possibly do. I think the Rambam

means that he is in the category of Israel but not actually Jewish until he

goes into the mikvah [as per the Talmud and

Mishna

Torah].

To Rav

Sadiah Gaon the main principles are three: God's existence, that he is one, and

reward and punishment. To Rav sadiah Gaon it is easy to see that many non Jews

can come under the category of Israel.

Chapter 10 - Non-Jews

·

The

non-Jews in the USA aren't idol worshipers. The Rashba and the Meiri held the

Christians are in the category of

gerei toshav

. Even if you don't go

that far the Rambam held they are not idolators. The Tosphot at the beginning

of

Avodah Zara

also says that the christians aren't idolators. The

reason this is relevant is that there is not, and never was, any rabbinical

decree not to marry a non-Jew who isn't an idolator.

·

To the

rabbis in the Gemara in

Avodah Zara

36b, the Biblical law is only not to

marry anyone from the 7-Canaanite nations and the rabbinical decree is not to

marry any idolators. To Rabbi Shimon Bar Yochai, who the

halachah

is

like in this case, the Biblical law not to marry any idolators [“All those who

induce to idolatry…”] and the rabbinical decree is not to have sex with them

outside of marriage [this doesn't expand the law horizontally to include more

people than the Torah forbids rather vertically to increase the degree of

strictness. The law is like Rabbi Shimon in this case since the later

authorities go like him. Thus, there is no law against marrying a non-Jew who

doesn't worship idols]. In neither opinion is there any law against marrying a

non­Jew who isn't an idolator.

Rabbi

Shimon specifically refers only to idolators and expands the law to include not

having sex with them even out of marriage. To the rabbis in the first opinion

the Biblical law is only the seven nations, and they expand it to include all

idolators. Even though the language of the Gemara is “idolators” I think the

rabbis forbid all non-Jews because otherwise who is the Braita in Mesechet

Gerim that says marrying a Ger Toshav is forbidden, unless you want to say that

is the opinion of Rabbi Meir that a Ger Toshav accepts on himself only not to

eat non-kosher meat. [You could answer this in a thousand ways, but they are

relevant to the Halacha which to them also doesn't apply after the seven

nations aren't around anymore, as the Rambam says, so to them the whole

rabbinical law is null and void since the situation it was made to guard

against is non-existent.

·

However,

there is one more decree specifically not to marry a Samaritan for the specific

reason mentioned in Rashi

Shabbat

16b [see Mesechet Gerim] which only

applies to them, since legally they are Jewish, but they don't keep the

mensural laws properly. This simply doesn't apply to non-Jews.

·

The Baal

Shem Tov and the entire school of Chasidut are pretty regular in saying that

the desire for money is equivalent to idolatry and I believe they mean it more

than a platitude, but as a halachah. Even though this may be hard to decide in

a court of law, but I think they believed anyone who loves money has the

halachic definition of an idolater. The implication is that even a religious

Jew can come into this category.

·

It is

permitted to walk into a Catholic church even though there are statues there

since the Gemara says in Avodah Zara 43b that the father of Shmuel and Levi

used to go to a synagogue where there was a statue and weren't afraid that

perhaps people would misconstrue their intentions (both Rashi and the Rosh

explain that that statue wasn't just for beauty but rather was an idol).

However, it seems to me that it is better not to go there, for it still is

better not to pray in a place where there are idols.

Chapter 11 – The Argument

between the Gra and the Chassidim

·

The

argument of the Gra (Rabbi Eliyahu from Vilna) and the chasidim has always been

beyond my reach because he (the Gra) really did say they (the chasidim) are

klipat

noga

- and looking at them today who can disagree? But the one point I

still hold by is that the excommunication wasn't on the Baal Shem Tov but the

disciples of HaMagid (Rabbi Dov Ber from Mezritsh).

·

I still

can't answer the defenses of the Baal Hatanya who wrote that the

excommunication was against those who disrespected those who learn Torah and

the words of the Sages and he wrote, “I know that I do not disrespect those who

learn Torah, nor the words of the Sages,  i.e., even if the excommunication may

have applied to many or even all of his chasidim he knew it didn't apply to

him.

·

The truth

be told, the excommunication of the Gra was outside the limits of the halachah

-- to excommunicate half the Jewish people without even bringing them to court.

The Gra held it was

migdar milsa

(the need of the hour) but further he

may have had some type of Divine Spirit that in fact something was wrong there.

So, if the excommunication applies, it any in any case couldn't have applied to

Rabbi Nachman for neither he nor his parents were disciples of the Magid which

were the specific target of the excommunication (in any case, I made a beit din

by Shmuel HaNavi to nullify it.)

This is

the spiritual uncertainty principle in action.

If you

look at either, they become a particle and the argument is clear and one is

right and the other wrong but if you don't look, and totally ignore it they

become waves that reinforce each other in certain things and destructively

interfere in others. For instance, to learn Torah you have to be connected to

the Gra. “No Gra means no Torah”. [Chasidish Torah is just to show that they

learn Torah but it's not Torah.]

Any

connection with chasidim will interfere. To have real prayer, i.e., private

prayer you have to be connected to Rabbi Nachman. Now, in order to solve this

and try to get both flows, this will cause both flows to become particles and

lose their connection to the light. [

Unless both can be fitted into the

vessels of

Tohu

.

]
