Chapter 4 – Piety

“Piety dies not with men; in their life and in their death it is

immortal.”

-Sophocles

·

The

contradiction of the empty space not having the light of God in it and yet the

fact that there is no place empty of His presence (“for the whole earth is full

of His Glory.” -

Isaiah

chapter 6) is the root of Quantum mechanics and

the wave function becoming a particle as it is observed is parallel to the fact

that God's presence is everywhere until you try to observe it, and then the

laws of the empty space take over which is the root of all non-belief in God.

Thus, we find that trying to get close to God has the effect of destroying a

person's spirituality. In Quantum mechanics we learn, change can only happen

when you aren't looking.

·

Most

people's lives have one focal point or center of mass

(a

nd so it is with nations also). If it is an elliptical

orbit there are two centers. But this is on different planes of spirituality,

i.e., on the basic level God alone should be the center of gravity. But on the

other level how can one serve or know God? So, he has to circle around the

righteous one who contains the light of God in him. So even though God is

everythin

g,

in another way (the level of “He

fills

all worlds”) He is the light inside the righteous one --

thus we find people focusing on Jesus or Rabbi Nachman or Halacha or the land

of Israel etc.

The right way is to concentrate on God alone and follow all

these things as tools to come close to God; but not to concentrate on the

tools.

·

People's

lives are like

sine

or

cosine

functions so

that even as they progress closer to God (the origin) the function really

doesn't change — just the ups and downs get less. This is the reason

everything

turns into its opposite. But this is only if one doesn't

progress towards the origin (God) which dampens the oscillations. (The idea

that everything turns into its opposite [as the Sages said in terms of the poor

becoming

rich and vice versa; “There is a

wheel which is turning in the world.”] only applies on the level of the lower

six sephirot, not the top three, so

Science and Kabbalah tend to help one to

rise out of the rat race

.)

There is

the

sine

function for the day, week, month, year, life. There is in

every person's life one peak. After that they waste the rest of their lives

trying to get it back. Nothing leads to as much unhappiness as the pursuit of

happiness.

True

Enlightenment comes only once in a lifetime. As we see with Jacob that first he

had a great revelation from God and a great promise on his way to Laban. Then

on his way back he had to fight with God [i.e., God revealed himself again to

Jacob, but this time as a man and as an enemy.]

And then he

had years of trouble in Israel. After that he only had years of peace in Egypt.

For this world is only a preparation for the next. Here one must suffer the

love and wrath of God, and

only then

one c

an

become a man.

·

The

commandments aren't an automatic drawing of holiness. They are like functions

that you have to first put in the number 0. You have to draw the holiness by

love and fear of God (as per the

tikkunim

of Rabbi Moshe Chayim Lutzato)

which come only by science and

kabbalah

(known to the sages by

the name, “Work of Creation”

,

and “Divine

Chariot''

, which the Sages of the Talmud call a great and important

thing, in relation to the Talmud which they call a small thing) as the Rambam

states at the beginning of

Mishneh

Torah.

·

The

reason you have to pray alone in a closet or in a forest is that all spiritual

matter and energy are a wave attached to God; until it is observed, at which

point it is a particle. Like Rabbi Nachman said that observing something makes

a “vessel”, i.e., makes something have a specific place and time. It seems in

the Eitz Chayim that this was caused by the original breaking of the vessels in

nekudim

,

i.e., the original symmetry. For before that, there was no

reason to think that the vessels would have fallen just by being looked at. So,

it seems that in their original state they could have stayed connected to God

in their wave particle form even after being looked at. But I'm not sure about

this

,

since the breaking was apparently from

too much light coming at once, which seems like a macrocosmic event along the

lines of classical Physics.

·

On Nov.

19, 1619, Descartes crawled inside a large stove, and spent the day in privacy,

warmth, and darkness, meditating. There he had a vision - that everything, man

nature, the cosmos all work by means of Mathematical principles. That is by

hiding himself he got in contact with his higher root by becoming a wave. That

was right after the period of Rabbi Isaac Luria and Rabbi Joseph Karo, so

Kabbalah and Halacha had been brought to their perfection and the time for

science had come.

·

Although

there is

an

absolute

center of the empty space, each individual

also ha

s,

in a parallel way, the level of the

line of

God's

light in his individual

direction

–

just as space-time manifolds have,

at each point, a double-cone of light-like directions.

·

The two

types of prayer are speaking with God when the light flows horizontally from

the circular sephirot and praying up to God when the light flows from the

straight

sephirot

, vertically. This is why by the graves of the

righteous it is usually easier to pray since the light is vertical, while away

from there one can only talk with God horizontally unless by some merit, he can

draw the vertical light upon himself.

·

The

reason one must pray very hard before he is answered is because the Zohar says

God is hidden and revealed. Which means that there are quantum states of

prayer. So just like in the atom if you put some small amount of energy into

the electron, the atom acts as a whole and hides its inner workings. Only if

you give it a lot of energy will the electron budge individually. Thus, it is

with prayer. Sometimes to get an answer you need to put a lot of time and

effort into your prayers.

·

Many

sages have offered a whole range of solutions to the problems of Yidishkeit

ranging from learning books of ethics and fear of God [

Musar

],

Chassidut

,

Kabbalah

,

Hisbodedut

,

extreme strictness in

Halachah

; some have offered different ways of

combining these things by doing a little of each every day. I believe that all

these things are merely tools. It's like climbing a mountain

:

some people are given one tool, and some are given all the

tools. Some are placed on an easier side of the mountain and some on a tougher

side. Not any one tool will work all the time for all the people or even one

person. Everything depends on the individual alone, his desire to get to the

top, his stamina, his perseverance, his intelligence, and understanding how to

use the tools. And even with all that he can still stick the chisel in the

wrong place! (Marry the wrong person and fall to his spiritual doom -- or

divorcing the wrong person), so one need's just plain help from God.

The proof

that none of the above

doctrines

really work very well except for certain individuals is

the adherents themselves of each doctrine. But the lack of basic human

integrity on the part of the followers of each doctrine wouldn't be a disproof

unless the Torah itself made integrity an fundamental part of saintliness,

–

as mentioned in the writings of Rabbi Sar Shalom Sharabi,

the

Chafetz

Chayim

, and the first authorities (I admit however

that this logic is limited for only 1960's people cared about finding the right

philosophy of life while most people just search a bit to find something which

makes them content and then cease to think and get on with what they consider

the more important business of money and sex and power). So even a correct

principle will have only a limited effect.

The real

proof against all the doctrines is the fanatical adherents who according to

their principles should have found some degree of perfection! Instead, we find

people divided along the old lines of character traits which don't differ at

all from religion to religion. The only effect of the religion seems to be on

the people as a whole - to bring them to a slightly higher (or lower or just

different) level than before and on the few individuals who use the tools

rightly. What matters is fear of God, and each religion simply provides one way

of expressing it if it already is inside of one. Even if each religion is wrong

in the eyes of the other that doesn't matter as it says in the verse “in every

place they are sacrificing to My Name

–

(Yechezkel),

even though they are in fact serving idols, since in their minds that is what

God wants, God accepts their offerings as if they were sacrificing to his name.

As the Sages said along similar lines, “God said to do [the commandments];

however we to them is pleasant for Him.”

·

The soul

will rebel if ignored. The Jewish soul demands the Torah and the commandments.

For this reason, I have had to show how Torah itself gives the freedom

necessary to develop artistically or scientifically.

Baalei Teshuva

didn't make up the desire to be religious. It is the essential core of all

Mankind.

Even

Einstein said that the basic essence of a scientist is the desire to understand

the universe and that is essentially a religious principle.  The families of

those who get the religious “bug” must learn to grin and bear it for many years

and still stick with him/her. In the end they will appreciate it… It is not an

aberration, it is a profound instinct in man, but it can cause a lot of upsets

in the family and friends.

Each side

must learn the importance of sticking with the other for our families are not

accidental. Hey are essential parts of

one’s

soul. Life is

about accepting our family and friends for who they are and not thinking that

we are going to improve anything by going elsewhere — or else life is about

learning this lesson.

·

“One has

to be on the same wavelength as God to receive his Word, power receivers,

closeness to him by a pure

lifestyle

, or big antennas

won't help unless you've got the right wavelength.” -

-Keith Moore

·

“One has

to be rein trained, like power steering i.e., willing to listen to a small hint

from God and not to

need

a

big revelation or an angel to come from heaven. God

sends his spirit to a person willing to obey small hints like Moses going aside

to see the burning bush.”

–

Keith Moore

·

Meditation

is the main theme of Rabbi Shneur Zalman however it is mentioned by Rabbi

Nachman as the calling to God from the depths of

one's

heart

without voice or words. The Books of

musar

emphasize it as

“Contemplation of the

Soul” of

the

Chovot

Halevavot

.

The Sages

of the Talmud said the first Chasidim used to wait one hour before and after

every prayer. Then it was asked in the Gemara, “Then for the three prayers

every day it comes out to be nine hours. When did they learn anything? The

Gemara answered, since they were Chasidim [i.e., pious] their learning was

guarded

/

blessed inside of them. To the person that said

“

guarded

”

it was only

guarded. To the person that said blessed, their learning

was

actually increased.” Now it is clear that they weren't

praying or learning but meditating. [Since the main problem in meditation is

the discipline needed, I suggest taking an oath to sit and do it for a certain

amount of time. An oath is a powerful tool because it turns a motivation to do

a good thing into a motivation not to transgress a very serious sin which is

stronger.

The idea of oaths was given by the Torah to help the weak of

spirit

. Incidentally an oath should only be taken day by day, never for

more than that since, “Who knows what tomorrow may bring?”

·

The

Brit

Menuchah

mentions that Prophecy comes from the

Tzitz

of the

Cohen

Gadol

which is representative of the

sepherah

of the crown and comes

only through the path of

judgment

. And this helps to answer Nietzsche’s objection to the

saints of old that afflicted themselves to come to some spiritual levels. Rabbi

Nachman also mentions this in

Likutei

Moharan,

Vol.

1,

C

h. 24, that the crown

prevents the mind from reaching the infinite light, and thus by the hitting on

the mind on the constraint of the crown are made vessels to receive the light.

[It seems it works like a

RLC

circuit.]

·

Fear of

God

is the key to wisdom, but many times the fear of God of the

parents results in the wisdom of the children. Other times depending on its

strength it causes the person that has it to be wise. University professors

will in general have religious parents which resulted in their children being

wise.

Since

Fear of God is such a key factor in wisdom and besides that we have. Rabbi

Nachman's way of learning I would like to suggest a way of learning that would

result in even a stupid person becoming wise:

(a)

Learn books of ethics and fear of God every

day and keep what they say to do.

(b)

Learn the subjects you want to learn every

day by just saying the words of the book in order from the beginning of the

book until the end without skipping or repeats. When you finish the entire

book, only then should you repeat the book again. [Sichot Haran 76] This may

take years, but I think over the course of much time one will see a greater

blessing in his learning than if he had learned in the regularly accepted way.

·

“Fear of

God increases days”

Stanislav

Kasl of Yale and Ellen Idler of Rutgers, studied 2,812 people in New Haven.

They discovered that outwardly religious people, whether Jewish, Protestant or

Catholic, were less likely to become medically disabled, than those who didn't

attend church or synagogue.

A study

of 454 men and 85 women in Jerusalem showed that secular [non­religious] Jews

had a greater risk of heart disease than Orthodox Jews. Analysts from the

University of Florida found that counties in the USA with the highest number of

religious people have the lowest rates of cancer. Dr. Larson and his colleagues

did a study on 400 men in Georgia, found that people that believed in God and

attended religious services had the lowest readings of blood pressure.

Those

that had one or the other had higher levels. Those with neither had the highest

readings. Dr. Larson and his team also reviewed more than 200 studies on

religious commitment and mental health and found that religious people have

lower rates of depression, alcoholism, suicide, and drug use than non-religious

people. Young people who are religious also do better in school and are less

likely to be sexually active. Married people that are religious reported

greater marital happiness, more satisfaction with their sex lives and lower

rates of divorce.

The

researchers examined specific concrete behavior like attending services, not

just abstract belief. [From the book

Age Erasers for Men

by Doug

Dollemore Rodale Books, Pennsylvania, 1994]. This certainly doesn't seem like

Saint Frances of Assisi who held that you can't live a lifestyle of peace and

own

material

possessions and still be called a Christian at all.

However, I think fear of God has to be entered into with a willingness to do

what is required regardless of the consequences — but the end result in general

is that of peace and happiness. We find Haran burned even though Abraham was

saved because Abraham was willing to be thrown in the furnace regardless of the

consequences. Thus, was saved. Haran was willing to be thrown in only because

he thought he would be saved.

·

Since the

Jewish people do not have the surrounding light of the circular sephirot their

only evil is in community actions [actions that can be ascribed only to the

community at large] like acquiescence to evil that their leaders and rabbis do,

but individually they are righteous. That is why punishment comes upon them

usually as a group as in the Holocaust, but individually their fear of God

brings them blessing physically mentally and financially and in their children.

The Christians on the other hand are collectively righteous as in America while

individually they are usually coarse Goyim. [This is why Christian Evangelists

can do miracles only in large groups where all the collective prayers and faith

join together to draw the soul of Jesus, while individual Jewish saints

generally can do only private miracles.] This is the reason why the Jewish

people can't make a nation at peace even within itself much less with the Arab

world surrounding it since they lack that outer light. This is the intention of

the prophets when they prophesied that the Jewish people would have bad leaders

as a result of their sins, i.e., the prophets saw the outer light would be

taken from them and replaced by

klipot

so that the actions of the Jewish

people as a whole would be evil though individually each person would be

righteous. This is also the intent of the Zohar when it refers to “Rabbis that

are Jewish demons

”

. And this is the intent of the Sages when they blame the

world’s problems on the Jewish leaders and

rabbis

of each

g

eneration. They aren't

engaged in hyperbole but a statement of fact.

·

The

relation between

mitzvoth

and prayer to physical deeds is parallel to

the relation between logic and revelation which is parallel to the relation

between trusting in God and action. Saints went to one side of the spectrum and

philosophers went to the other. The path of the Rambam was to defer to logic

when there was a difference between Reason and Revelation. It is my opinion

that revelation [the Crown] is the main thing and Reason [Wisdom] is only to

understand and apply revelation to real life situations. Thus, it comes out according

to this that trust in God is the main thing and action is secondary. Thus,

people from the different faiths that chose separation from this world as the

proper path would be going according to this logic, and in fact it seems that

their great devotion to God resulted in their gaining some kind of closeness

with him [

Baba

Sali or Saint Frances of Assisi]. I have heard that Rav

Sonnenfeild from Jerusalem decided as a young man that he would take the first

match offered to him and thus he did depending on God divine providence that

she would be the right one. And in fact, they had a long happy marriage. Yet I

would agree with that only in conjunction with the advice of George Fox of then

taking advice from one's family. This would be in accordance with the principle

of the sephirah of the Crown first [trust], then reason [Wisdom].

·

The

Rambam's writes, “Consequently he who wishes to reach perfection, must first

study Logic, and then the different parts of Mathematics in their right order,

then physics, then Metaphysics (what today we call philosophy) -- [The Guide

I:34]. Then when God sees that your spiritual vessels are ready, He will shine

his light on you [The Guide III:52].

However,

he says in connection with prophecy, that even after proper preparation, there

is no guarantee that He will give you prophecy for the Rambam held that

intuition is like IQ — it is a naturally born power, of which some people have

more and some less — but everyone has to some degree [The Guide II:32 and 38].

He held

the prophets increased this faculty by learning. The Rambam obviously held that

there is a point that what is internalized in the mind becomes part of the

spirit — similar to Hegel. However, I think that by meditation, which

corresponds to the level of the Crown, one can increase his degree of intuition

and awareness of God's will. The fact that the Rambam held the gift of prophecy

to be a naturally-born thing, which God adds to if one merits, explains why the

Jewish sages in the past that don't seem to have meditated, merited to great

spiritual levels.

But it is

also possible that they did meditate, for the unifications of the Ari and Rabbi

Abulafia are clearly in thought (not speech) though some of them can be spoken —

but not many.

The

Rambam wrote in the Guide and Mishna Torah that one needs to learn Torah first

in order to know the laws of conduct — however, he also writes in the beginning

of Mishna Torah that work contains the entire Oral Law and one needs only to learn

the First Testament and the Mishna Torah and nothing else.

Also, he

writes that the Mishna Torah is for the great and the small (i.e., average

intelligence). This suffices to answer those who try to avoid the Rambam's

point of learning science and philosophy — by making the study of the Torah

longer and harder than it has to be.

He

specifically holds that there was written a code of Jewish law and only for

special reasons were non-halachic opinions added, but theoretically, just a

simple halachic book was all that was needed. So even if there are opinions not

like the Rambam, it would be sufficient to add them to the Mishna Torah, and

not spend all one's life learning that which the Rambam held was almost a waste

of time.

The

Rambam isn't alone in this, for there is also the

Duties of the Heart

that held that going into halachic matters that don't concern one is a complete

waste of time and one rather should learn science and philosophy to come to

love and fear of God.

In

general, I have noticed that modern day Orthodox Judaism is a totally different

religion than that of the Rambam, and the other Jewish Sages of the Medieval

period. To me, that seems ironic, for they claim that the other Jews have gone

off the path.

It seems

that orthodox Judaism has been on a downward-spiral for some time to take the

spirituality out of religion. If you'll notice in Hamlet, that Hamlet felt that

since in his prayer he hadn't succeed to connect with God, that it wasn't

really a prayer. Shakespeare’s whole attitude towards that is that this was in

fact the case, for he considers it ironic that he was spared by seeming to

pray.

So, we

see a general attitude that trying to pray isn't necessarily praying, but in

orthodox Judaism all the prayers are exactly like that, and if one even

attempts to put a little extra into his prayers, he is looked down upon and all

the more so if he tries to pray with the intentions of the Kabbalah.

[Nowadays,

Orthodoxy has become an anti-spiritual movement].

Historically,

I believe we can trace a long progression of Orthodox Judaism attempting to

take spirituality out of the Torah. No longer is God a weighty subject in

Judaism. Now it is the Laws [halacha] for the orthodox, or social justice for

the Reform — but God simply has become a concept that is mentioned for the sake

of lip service.

Thus, we

see that the Sanhedrin in the days of Moses tried to convict him for being a

false prophet [Korach and the heads of the Sanhedrin as Rashi says]. Thus, we

find the Torah establishment of David's time siding with Saul — as the Gemara

Shabbat explains [Doeg was the head of the Sanhedrin]. Thus, we find most of

the rabbis of the Rambam's time trying to excommunicate him, and thus we find

the rabbis of later times condemning the Kabbalah. In all these cases a

generation has to go by, and sometimes much more, until the truth is accepted —

but by then it is sterilized, so as to become non-effective.

Now, all of

them are considered great, but their teachings are ignored when they aren't

politically correct.  Physical mitzvot, to the Rambam, are to provide an environment

for spiritual growth, but do not cause it.

Physical

actions can in no way stimulate internal growth. If knowing lots of laws makes

one spiritual, then Big Blue the computer is more spiritual than all the rabbis

together!

In

yeshivot, it is the accepted way to delve deeply into every word and letter of

the Rambam. I wonder when they will get around to delving into the exact

meaning of “Consequently he who wishes to reach perfection, must first study

Logic, then the different parts of Mathematics in their right order, then

Physics, then Metaphysics”! — and be exacting in every word and every letter.

·

It is a

very worthwhile experience not to get your prayers answered so that you realize

that your prayers and trusting on God and your good deeds can't cause God to do

your will. This is the case no matter how powerful and deep your prayers are.

It is a big ego trip to think that with your prayers you can force him to do

your will. Trust and prayer are good things when done with the right viewpoint

- that God will do what he knows to be the right thing no matter what. But

prayer also can help but only sometimes.

·

There are

two ways of approaching tolerance:

a)

Perhaps tolerance is not a virtue in itself,

but what is wrong with the orthodox is that they forget that the Torah says

don't add to the commandments, and they keep closing the bubble more and more

until there is no room to breathe.  (They, of course don't keep these

standards. They just sin and repent afterwards. But the conventions are useful

in that they provide a way of oppressing everyone else.) Besides that, they are

intolerant of behavior outside of their conventions, which have nothing to do

with the Torah and many times contradict the Torah. But even the non-religious

recognize an outer limit for the bubble. The good thing about the non-religious

is that they have an outer limit and inner limit and so have a pretty good idea

of where to put the limits of behavior. The religious, however, don't recognize

that an inner limit can exist, and they get stricter and make the bubble

smaller and smaller until they condense into the Swartzchild radius of a black

hole from which there is no escape unless, like me, you just come out the other

side. (That is why they and Greek Orthodox wear black clothes to warn people

that they represent a spiritual black hole.)

b)

Another approach is that tolerance is a

virtue in itself and that

God Himself has different standards

for every

person and that even God himself loves tolerance and allows a person a wide

range of opportunity to choose his own behavior within certain limits that

apply that person's soul.

However,

I think there really is not one border-line but two. There is an outer and an inner

limit different for every person, but they fall into a binomial pattern so that

the Torah can state certain basic behavior patterns that are acceptable.

And, besides

this, there is a great interval between the limits where free will and

opportunity exist for growth. The difference between the areas is the gray area

is where tolerance applies, and the white area is simply permitted.

·

The rule

is that teachers of morality can't be moral in people's eyes. God will always

cause a situation to arise where they will seem not moral. This is for the sake

of free-will. Also, it makes it indistinguishable between hypocrites and

sincere teachers which also is necessary for free will.

·

There is

a very basic difference between the Rambam's idea of morality and ethics and

the general religious view. To the general view it is doing what the Torah

says. This view I have ascribed to in much of this book. But, to the Rambam the

criteria

is

Reason.

The Torah

is only to teach us what reason requires. I think ethics is this principle:

doing those actions [or words or thoughts] that are in accord with reason and

the heart. [I think this way was also the Rambam’s intent though he didn't

express it as such.] Thus, there is a certain criteria of reason that if the

heart disagrees it means that one's reason is wrong. There is here a basic

question for the nature of the standards is different.

The

traditional way of looking at the laws of the Torah or morality in general is

that it is some standard rule of conduct, and that theoretically there is some

infinite or finite set of rules for all situations. The Rambam's way is that

there is no external set of rules, only internal rules within each person's

heart and mind that we may be unaware of because of the physicality of the body

that causes us not to hear our minds or heart.

Thus,

there comes a sign to know if someone actually is going to Gan Eden after they

pass away or not. If they have no conscience, i.e., no pangs of guilt when they

cause some type of emotional pain or otherwise to another person, that is a

sign they are completely out of touch with their heart and mind or that their

inner heart and mind have left them and thus they will not go to the light

afterwards. This is the rational

explanation

of the

Ari who said that by anger one loses his soul [i.e., heart and mind]. If they

actually have a tendency to hurt others when the opportunity presents itself,

and there is no external constraint, they are evil and go to hell. The reason

they do this is because they assert only their rights, not others, and thus

come from the breaking of the vessels from which the

kelipot

came. In

Correction all the vessels are together but retain their individual

characteristics. By means of that, the higher light is drawn on them. Good

people come from that world.

Now we

also see that there are different levels of the soul [heart-mind] that react to

different types of sin or lack of good deeds or right knowledge. But we can't

differentiate by the five levels of the Kabbalah since they are horizontal

levels, rather we have to differentiate vertically as Rabbi Sar Shalom Sharabi

did. So, the

nefesh

of each level [i.e.,

nefesh

of

nefesh

or

nefesh

of

ruach

etc...] reacts to bad deeds by guilty feelings

or feels an inner emptiness when there is a lack of good deeds. The foundation

of  nefesh reacts to sexual sin. Kindness of nefesh reacts to kindness, i

.e.,

giving or not giving - but

judgment

of

nefesh

reacts to cruel deeds.

It is a

different subject to the soul. The nefesh of ruach reacts to the inner

spiritual levels of the physical deed

.

Ruach

of

each level reacts to bad words in the above

manner. Neshamah of each level reacts to emotion,

i.e.,

feeling good about feeling love [

i.e., t

he Strange Loop again or what I call the

S

trange

Sp

iral that goes to

infinity], and feeling guilty about feelings of anger. Chaya is for the mind

[feeling good about gaining knowledge] and

Yechidah

is for the soul of the soul, the archetype soul.

[TO THE

RASHASH THE MITZVOT ARE THE INNER GARMENTS OF LIGHT, THE CHARACTER IS THE

GARMENTS OF SKIN OF THE SOUL. HE ALSO DIVIDES THE CHARACTER INTO FOUR MAIN

PARTS.

From

bottom to top it is humility, silence, despising pleasures of the body,

constant happiness in one’s portion. The evil traits are: pride, talking for no

purpose, desire, depression...

The

reason desire is evil is two things. One this is only talking about

kelipat

noga

so it is only evil if one's intention isn't toward God.

The other

reason is that sexual desire in itself is directed towards all females and thus

is a manifestation of the spirit of the species as to increasing the quantity

of the species, not the quality. [This idea is from Schopenhauer]. The reason

that is evil is that simple continuation is kelipat noga, only going up and

improvement relative to one's present position is good.

·

For

mitzvot

that you

don't feel light from you will not get any reward in the next world therefrom.

There really is not all that much difference between here and there. So, if you

don’t feel any light then believe me, there isn't any. This is why the Torah

only promises good in this world for doing the

mitzvot

.

Since the next world is not dependent on

mitzvoth

, only this world is.

However, if you feel the light then in all likelihood you are on the right

track for there too. However, since getting there is such a fragile thing it is

worth it to have a guarantee. So, this is why it is worth it to get to the

grave of Rabbi Nachman, say the ten psalms and give a penny for charity, in

which case he promised he would take that person that does this out of hell, an

unpleasant place by all accounts.

·

It is

forbidden to change one

’s

religion since it is impossible to get the spiritual

blessing except from the root one was born from as already mentioned by the

kabbalists from the Middle Ages. But there is another reason, i.e., that

religion is the images and stories

e

mbedded

into one's

consciousness

when he is young. One

can never change that, nor is it desirable to. One can always stick with his

own religion and just take out the things that are forbidden. True religion

isn't a bunch of rules, it is a way to approach God. And that can only be done

with the totality of

one's

consciousness.

·

Fear of

God is being aware of the presence of God and fearing Him. It is not the same

thing as faith. Faith is Royalty and fear is

Judgment

[and the higher fear {awe} is Wisdom]. Fear is not the same thing as being

strict in observing commandments. In fact, the original idea of Chasidut was

that there is nothing besides God, and that therefore it is possible to serve

God with everything and through everything as long as serving God is one's

intention. It was the first 1960's, where sex and fun and spirituality was all

possible in one package. There is no question that there was much illicit sex

at the beginning of Chasidut [as the affidavits signed in Vilna testify to],

and for this reason the Gra went against the idea that there is nothing but God

until Reb Chayim of Voloshin [his disciple] came and agreed with it, but

explained it in a way that would not contradict the law and thus this idea came

part of the body of accepted doctrine of the Torah. However, to be fair the

original doctrine of Chasidut was not to go against Halacha but rather to

be

as lenient

as possible since fear of God has nothing

to do with being strict.

The idea

of

chassidus

as taken

by people in general was do what you want and intend it for God and that is

accepted by God as Divine service [as long as you don't do evil] since there is

nothing besides God and everything is God. It was “Serve God by having fun,” [i.e.,

serve God with joy/fun].

This

wasn't appreciated by the Gra and most rabbis. When they would go on the street

and ask the youth why are you behaving so wildly the answer wasn't ‘Go to

hell,’ but rather, “This is our Divine service.” Giving a spiritual motive to

have fun was unappreciated by the Gra. To a degree this was rightly so since

just like the Flower Children of the 60s’ deteriorated into the Yuppies of the

70s’, so the movement of

chassidus

reversed its polarity from super spiritual to super

material until today it is the worship of money and power.

·

One of

the benefits of there being religious people even though they are jerks is that

the gate into holiness would be closed by the klipot completely if they weren't

standing in the door. So even though the religious are themselves an obstacle

to the service of God still they benefit us by keeping the door open.

·

There is

a normal distribution of how many people [Jewish, Christian, etc] can or should

be religious. This is because there are ten sephirot and the sepherah of piety

is Judgement. The orthodox are Judgement, which is 10% of all Jews [However, a

recent study shows the orthodox are about 7% of American Jews.] The Rashi that

explains that people should not try to keep all the

mitzvot

[because if they would, then no one would merit to the

next world] was written for those people who are not allowed to be religious,

for being religious isn't their root and it is forbidden for them to try to be

religious and it would hurt them spiritually if they would try.

·

The

Gemara in Macot 24A says, ‘Rabbi Simlai expounded

:

613

commandments were said to Moses...

·

[King] David came and established them on

11...

·

Isaiah came and established them on 6...

·

Micah came and established them on 3....

·

Isaiah then established them on 2...

·

Amos came and established them on 1…

Rashi

writes, “[…] Established them on 11.” For, at first people were righteous and

could bear the yoke of many commandments, but the later generations were not so

righteous and if they would try to keep them all no one would merit. So, David

came and established them on 11.”

Rashi is

clear. However, the other first authorities explain this Gemarah differently.

Now, to show you that I am not making up my own explanation of Rashi, look at

the Marsha who says on this Rashi, “the question is famous,” and then he brings

the explanation of another first authority. However, this doesn't detract from

the fact that Rashi wrote what he wrote. This does show however that even the

Marsha understood Rashi as saying what it is obvious what he is saying.

Isn't it

clear that Rashi knew the verses of the Torah that say the Mitzvot are forever?

Obviously, yes. So, we must say that Rashi held those verses apply only to the

specific commandment that the verse is referring to there, e.g., if the Torah

says the two loaves or the Shabbat are forever then we know that those mitzvot

are eternal. But why doesn't it say this by other mitzvot? It must be that the

other mitzvot

are

not eternal. [Otherwise, why say

it by some and not others? And the verse in Haazinu [Deut. 29:28] says to do

all the words of the Torah forever, but not to do

mitzvot

that were

given only for a certain time period forever. For instance, if a person would

sit in a

sukkah

on chanukah, he would not have a mitzvah. If you do a

mitzvah after

its

time period is over, you

also have no mitzvah. So, in Rashi's explanation, King David said the time to

keep the mitzvot that were not eternal is over. But he was not referring to

mitzvot like the Shabbat, which are. It seems to me

that the Mitzvot

mentioned in connection with the land of Israel are

eternal since the Torah gives them in order that we should inherit the land of

Israel

forever.

Now there

is a difference of opinion if the commandments are a goal in themselves. If we

take the Baal HaTanya's point of view, then one way to resolve that Rashi

,

except to say that the Baal HaTanya must hold like the

other

R

ishonim that explain that Gemara

differently. However, the

perush

on the Rambam explains that lower fear

of God [fear of punishment] is to bring one to the

mitzvot

and the

mitzvot

are to bring one to the higher fear [awe of God]. According to this Rashi it

comes out well. For since the commandments are specifically to bring one to awe

of God and King David [and the later prophets] saw that in their

generation

the

mitzvot

did not cause awe of God. Perhaps

that caused him to realize the time period was over.

·

The Baal

Shem Tov was given by the Messiah three things to do, and three unifications -

that if people would do them, the Messiah would come. I would like to take a

guess as to what they might be based on the things that the Baal Shem Tov

himself was careful in, i.e.:

1)

Mikvah

2)

Praying at sunrise

3)

Learning in the way of just saying the words

quickly and without repeating anything.

I would

guess the things to learn would be the four categories that the Arizal said to

learn every day, i.e., the Bible, Halacha, Gemara,

Kabbalah

. (The Rambam held that science is in the category of

Gemara. So, this turns out to be the Bible, Halacha, Science,

Kabbalah

.

The three

unifications I would guess are the names 72,42 and 12.

