
corresponds to the level of the Crown, one can increase his degree of intuition

and awareness of God's will. The fact that the Rambam held the gift of prophecy

to be a naturally-born thing, which God adds to if one merits, explains why the

Jewish sages in the past that don't seem to have meditated, merited to great

spiritual levels.

But it is

also possible that they did meditate, for the unifications of the Ari and Rabbi

Abulafia are clearly in thought (not speech) though some of them can be spoken —

but not many.

The

Rambam wrote in the Guide and Mishna Torah that one needs to learn Torah first

in order to know the laws of conduct — however, he also writes in the beginning

of Mishna Torah that work contains the entire Oral Law and one needs only to learn

the First Testament and the Mishna Torah and nothing else.

Also, he

writes that the Mishna Torah is for the great and the small (i.e., average

intelligence). This suffices to answer those who try to avoid the Rambam's

point of learning science and philosophy — by making the study of the Torah

longer and harder than it has to be.

He

specifically holds that there was written a code of Jewish law and only for

special reasons were non-halachic opinions added, but theoretically, just a

simple halachic book was all that was needed. So even if there are opinions not

like the Rambam, it would be sufficient to add them to the Mishna Torah, and

not spend all one's life learning that which the Rambam held was almost a waste

of time.

The

Rambam isn't alone in this, for there is also the

Duties of the Heart

that held that going into halachic matters that don't concern one is a complete

waste of time and one rather should learn science and philosophy to come to

love and fear of God.

In

general, I have noticed that modern day Orthodox Judaism is a totally different

religion than that of the Rambam, and the other Jewish Sages of the Medieval

period. To me, that seems ironic, for they claim that the other Jews have gone

off the path.

It seems

that orthodox Judaism has been on a downward-spiral for some time to take the

spirituality out of religion. If you'll notice in Hamlet, that Hamlet felt that

since in his prayer he hadn't succeed to connect with God, that it wasn't

really a prayer. Shakespeare’s whole attitude towards that is that this was in

fact the case, for he considers it ironic that he was spared by seeming to

pray.

So, we

see a general attitude that trying to pray isn't necessarily praying, but in
