
lower rates of depression, alcoholism, suicide, and drug use than non-religious

people. Young people who are religious also do better in school and are less

likely to be sexually active. Married people that are religious reported

greater marital happiness, more satisfaction with their sex lives and lower

rates of divorce.

The

researchers examined specific concrete behavior like attending services, not

just abstract belief. [From the book

Age Erasers for Men

by Doug

Dollemore Rodale Books, Pennsylvania, 1994]. This certainly doesn't seem like

Saint Frances of Assisi who held that you can't live a lifestyle of peace and

own

material

possessions and still be called a Christian at all.

However, I think fear of God has to be entered into with a willingness to do

what is required regardless of the consequences — but the end result in general

is that of peace and happiness. We find Haran burned even though Abraham was

saved because Abraham was willing to be thrown in the furnace regardless of the

consequences. Thus, was saved. Haran was willing to be thrown in only because

he thought he would be saved.

·

Since the

Jewish people do not have the surrounding light of the circular sephirot their

only evil is in community actions [actions that can be ascribed only to the

community at large] like acquiescence to evil that their leaders and rabbis do,

but individually they are righteous. That is why punishment comes upon them

usually as a group as in the Holocaust, but individually their fear of God

brings them blessing physically mentally and financially and in their children.

The Christians on the other hand are collectively righteous as in America while

individually they are usually coarse Goyim. [This is why Christian Evangelists

can do miracles only in large groups where all the collective prayers and faith

join together to draw the soul of Jesus, while individual Jewish saints

generally can do only private miracles.] This is the reason why the Jewish

people can't make a nation at peace even within itself much less with the Arab

world surrounding it since they lack that outer light. This is the intention of

the prophets when they prophesied that the Jewish people would have bad leaders

as a result of their sins, i.e., the prophets saw the outer light would be

taken from them and replaced by

klipot

so that the actions of the Jewish

people as a whole would be evil though individually each person would be

righteous. This is also the intent of the Zohar when it refers to “Rabbis that

are Jewish demons

”

. And this is the intent of the Sages when they blame the
