
thing as faith. Faith is Royalty and fear is

Judgment

[and the higher fear {awe} is Wisdom]. Fear is not the same thing as being

strict in observing commandments. In fact, the original idea of Chasidut was

that there is nothing besides God, and that therefore it is possible to serve

God with everything and through everything as long as serving God is one's

intention. It was the first 1960's, where sex and fun and spirituality was all

possible in one package. There is no question that there was much illicit sex

at the beginning of Chasidut [as the affidavits signed in Vilna testify to],

and for this reason the Gra went against the idea that there is nothing but God

until Reb Chayim of Voloshin [his disciple] came and agreed with it, but

explained it in a way that would not contradict the law and thus this idea came

part of the body of accepted doctrine of the Torah. However, to be fair the

original doctrine of Chasidut was not to go against Halacha but rather to

be

as lenient

as possible since fear of God has nothing

to do with being strict.

The idea

of

chassidus

as taken

by people in general was do what you want and intend it for God and that is

accepted by God as Divine service [as long as you don't do evil] since there is

nothing besides God and everything is God. It was “Serve God by having fun,” [i.e.,

serve God with joy/fun].

This

wasn't appreciated by the Gra and most rabbis. When they would go on the street

and ask the youth why are you behaving so wildly the answer wasn't ‘Go to

hell,’ but rather, “This is our Divine service.” Giving a spiritual motive to

have fun was unappreciated by the Gra. To a degree this was rightly so since

just like the Flower Children of the 60s’ deteriorated into the Yuppies of the

70s’, so the movement of

chassidus

reversed its polarity from super spiritual to super

material until today it is the worship of money and power.

·

One of

the benefits of there being religious people even though they are jerks is that

the gate into holiness would be closed by the klipot completely if they weren't

standing in the door. So even though the religious are themselves an obstacle

to the service of God still they benefit us by keeping the door open.

·

There is

a normal distribution of how many people [Jewish, Christian, etc] can or should

be religious. This is because there are ten sephirot and the sepherah of piety
