
is Judgement. The orthodox are Judgement, which is 10% of all Jews [However, a

recent study shows the orthodox are about 7% of American Jews.] The Rashi that

explains that people should not try to keep all the

mitzvot

[because if they would, then no one would merit to the

next world] was written for those people who are not allowed to be religious,

for being religious isn't their root and it is forbidden for them to try to be

religious and it would hurt them spiritually if they would try.

·

The

Gemara in Macot 24A says, ‘Rabbi Simlai expounded

:

613

commandments were said to Moses...

·

[King] David came and established them on

11...

·

Isaiah came and established them on 6...

·

Micah came and established them on 3....

·

Isaiah then established them on 2...

·

Amos came and established them on 1…

Rashi

writes, “[…] Established them on 11.” For, at first people were righteous and

could bear the yoke of many commandments, but the later generations were not so

righteous and if they would try to keep them all no one would merit. So, David

came and established them on 11.”

Rashi is

clear. However, the other first authorities explain this Gemarah differently.

Now, to show you that I am not making up my own explanation of Rashi, look at

the Marsha who says on this Rashi, “the question is famous,” and then he brings

the explanation of another first authority. However, this doesn't detract from

the fact that Rashi wrote what he wrote. This does show however that even the

Marsha understood Rashi as saying what it is obvious what he is saying.

Isn't it

clear that Rashi knew the verses of the Torah that say the Mitzvot are forever?

Obviously, yes. So, we must say that Rashi held those verses apply only to the

specific commandment that the verse is referring to there, e.g., if the Torah

says the two loaves or the Shabbat are forever then we know that those mitzvot

are eternal. But why doesn't it say this by other mitzvot? It must be that the

other mitzvot

are

not eternal. [Otherwise, why say
