
orthodox Judaism all the prayers are exactly like that, and if one even

attempts to put a little extra into his prayers, he is looked down upon and all

the more so if he tries to pray with the intentions of the Kabbalah.

[Nowadays,

Orthodoxy has become an anti-spiritual movement].

Historically,

I believe we can trace a long progression of Orthodox Judaism attempting to

take spirituality out of the Torah. No longer is God a weighty subject in

Judaism. Now it is the Laws [halacha] for the orthodox, or social justice for

the Reform — but God simply has become a concept that is mentioned for the sake

of lip service.

Thus, we

see that the Sanhedrin in the days of Moses tried to convict him for being a

false prophet [Korach and the heads of the Sanhedrin as Rashi says]. Thus, we

find the Torah establishment of David's time siding with Saul — as the Gemara

Shabbat explains [Doeg was the head of the Sanhedrin]. Thus, we find most of

the rabbis of the Rambam's time trying to excommunicate him, and thus we find

the rabbis of later times condemning the Kabbalah. In all these cases a

generation has to go by, and sometimes much more, until the truth is accepted —

but by then it is sterilized, so as to become non-effective.

Now, all of

them are considered great, but their teachings are ignored when they aren't

politically correct.  Physical mitzvot, to the Rambam, are to provide an environment

for spiritual growth, but do not cause it.

Physical

actions can in no way stimulate internal growth. If knowing lots of laws makes

one spiritual, then Big Blue the computer is more spiritual than all the rabbis

together!

In

yeshivot, it is the accepted way to delve deeply into every word and letter of

the Rambam. I wonder when they will get around to delving into the exact

meaning of “Consequently he who wishes to reach perfection, must first study

Logic, then the different parts of Mathematics in their right order, then

Physics, then Metaphysics”! — and be exacting in every word and every letter.

·

It is a

very worthwhile experience not to get your prayers answered so that you realize

that your prayers and trusting on God and your good deeds can't cause God to do

your will. This is the case no matter how powerful and deep your prayers are.

It is a big ego trip to think that with your prayers you can force him to do

your will. Trust and prayer are good things when done with the right viewpoint

- that God will do what he knows to be the right thing no matter what. But

prayer also can help but only sometimes.

·

There are

two ways of approaching tolerance:
