
world’s problems on the Jewish leaders and

rabbis

of each

g

eneration. They aren't

engaged in hyperbole but a statement of fact.

·

The

relation between

mitzvoth

and prayer to physical deeds is parallel to

the relation between logic and revelation which is parallel to the relation

between trusting in God and action. Saints went to one side of the spectrum and

philosophers went to the other. The path of the Rambam was to defer to logic

when there was a difference between Reason and Revelation. It is my opinion

that revelation [the Crown] is the main thing and Reason [Wisdom] is only to

understand and apply revelation to real life situations. Thus, it comes out according

to this that trust in God is the main thing and action is secondary. Thus,

people from the different faiths that chose separation from this world as the

proper path would be going according to this logic, and in fact it seems that

their great devotion to God resulted in their gaining some kind of closeness

with him [

Baba

Sali or Saint Frances of Assisi]. I have heard that Rav

Sonnenfeild from Jerusalem decided as a young man that he would take the first

match offered to him and thus he did depending on God divine providence that

she would be the right one. And in fact, they had a long happy marriage. Yet I

would agree with that only in conjunction with the advice of George Fox of then

taking advice from one's family. This would be in accordance with the principle

of the sephirah of the Crown first [trust], then reason [Wisdom].

·

The

Rambam's writes, “Consequently he who wishes to reach perfection, must first

study Logic, and then the different parts of Mathematics in their right order,

then physics, then Metaphysics (what today we call philosophy) -- [The Guide

I:34]. Then when God sees that your spiritual vessels are ready, He will shine

his light on you [The Guide III:52].

However,

he says in connection with prophecy, that even after proper preparation, there

is no guarantee that He will give you prophecy for the Rambam held that

intuition is like IQ — it is a naturally born power, of which some people have

more and some less — but everyone has to some degree [The Guide II:32 and 38].

He held

the prophets increased this faculty by learning. The Rambam obviously held that

there is a point that what is internalized in the mind becomes part of the

spirit — similar to Hegel. However, I think that by meditation, which
