
Reason.

The Torah

is only to teach us what reason requires. I think ethics is this principle:

doing those actions [or words or thoughts] that are in accord with reason and

the heart. [I think this way was also the Rambam’s intent though he didn't

express it as such.] Thus, there is a certain criteria of reason that if the

heart disagrees it means that one's reason is wrong. There is here a basic

question for the nature of the standards is different.

The

traditional way of looking at the laws of the Torah or morality in general is

that it is some standard rule of conduct, and that theoretically there is some

infinite or finite set of rules for all situations. The Rambam's way is that

there is no external set of rules, only internal rules within each person's

heart and mind that we may be unaware of because of the physicality of the body

that causes us not to hear our minds or heart.

Thus,

there comes a sign to know if someone actually is going to Gan Eden after they

pass away or not. If they have no conscience, i.e., no pangs of guilt when they

cause some type of emotional pain or otherwise to another person, that is a

sign they are completely out of touch with their heart and mind or that their

inner heart and mind have left them and thus they will not go to the light

afterwards. This is the rational

explanation

of the

Ari who said that by anger one loses his soul [i.e., heart and mind]. If they

actually have a tendency to hurt others when the opportunity presents itself,

and there is no external constraint, they are evil and go to hell. The reason

they do this is because they assert only their rights, not others, and thus

come from the breaking of the vessels from which the

kelipot

came. In

Correction all the vessels are together but retain their individual

characteristics. By means of that, the higher light is drawn on them. Good

people come from that world.

Now we

also see that there are different levels of the soul [heart-mind] that react to

different types of sin or lack of good deeds or right knowledge. But we can't

differentiate by the five levels of the Kabbalah since they are horizontal

levels, rather we have to differentiate vertically as Rabbi Sar Shalom Sharabi

did. So, the

nefesh

of each level [i.e.,

nefesh

of

nefesh

or
