
that none of the above

doctrines

really work very well except for certain individuals is

the adherents themselves of each doctrine. But the lack of basic human

integrity on the part of the followers of each doctrine wouldn't be a disproof

unless the Torah itself made integrity an fundamental part of saintliness,

–

as mentioned in the writings of Rabbi Sar Shalom Sharabi,

the

Chafetz

Chayim

, and the first authorities (I admit however

that this logic is limited for only 1960's people cared about finding the right

philosophy of life while most people just search a bit to find something which

makes them content and then cease to think and get on with what they consider

the more important business of money and sex and power). So even a correct

principle will have only a limited effect.

The real

proof against all the doctrines is the fanatical adherents who according to

their principles should have found some degree of perfection! Instead, we find

people divided along the old lines of character traits which don't differ at

all from religion to religion. The only effect of the religion seems to be on

the people as a whole - to bring them to a slightly higher (or lower or just

different) level than before and on the few individuals who use the tools

rightly. What matters is fear of God, and each religion simply provides one way

of expressing it if it already is inside of one. Even if each religion is wrong

in the eyes of the other that doesn't matter as it says in the verse “in every

place they are sacrificing to My Name

–

(Yechezkel),

even though they are in fact serving idols, since in their minds that is what

God wants, God accepts their offerings as if they were sacrificing to his name.

As the Sages said along similar lines, “God said to do [the commandments];

however we to them is pleasant for Him.”

·

The soul

will rebel if ignored. The Jewish soul demands the Torah and the commandments.

For this reason, I have had to show how Torah itself gives the freedom

necessary to develop artistically or scientifically.

Baalei Teshuva

didn't make up the desire to be religious. It is the essential core of all

Mankind.

Even

Einstein said that the basic essence of a scientist is the desire to understand

the universe and that is essentially a religious principle.  The families of

those who get the religious “bug” must learn to grin and bear it for many years
