Chapter 2 - Marriage

“A hasty attachment is held to be dishonorable, because time is

the true test of this as of most other things”

-Plato, the Symposium

My bounty is as boundless as the sea,

My love as deep; the more I give to thee,

The more I have, for both are infinite.

-Juliet

to Romeo

·

I believe in marriage

at young ages — in the teenage years as the Talmud says,

and as

was always done by the disciples of the Baal Shem Tov and the Moroccan Jews,

and Yemenite Jews. The

sepherah

of Foundation is the teenage years and

therefore the most appropriate time for procreation, as the Talmud says that

Rabbah said, “The reason I am better than my friends is because I married at

16, and if I would have married at 14, I would have said ‘an arrow in the eye

of the evil inclination’”, i.e. he wouldn't have been afraid of the evil

inclination at all. Also, two wives are permitted even to Ashkenazic Jewry —

because the decree of Rabbi Gershon was only for a limited time as it says in

the

Shulchan Aruch.

·

One can

combine the circular and the straight

sephirot

into one, which results

in the name 63 (since

yosher

and

igulim

are from 52 and 45) by

considering the combination of a point in the

igulim

and of a point in

yosher as one point in the new type of sephirot of 63 and 72 (as a product

manifold) I think this is the spiritual process that we are involved with now

for in the redemption there will be the name 72 so we must be in one stage

before that. This would explain why so many Jews are marrying non-Jews; in

order to combine the vessels of tikun with the light if tohu (if the non-Jew

goes into a

mikvah

for the sake of becoming a Jew this is permitted to

Rashi and Tospot but not the Rambam who requires three judges.

·

Many

times, one suffers because of one's mate. He should know that the suffering

would come upon him anyway even without the mate and therefore getting rid of

them won't help. It will only make things worse. But in a harsher form.

·

A Word to Women

A.

All men are either eccentric or evil. So, if

you notice your husband is bit different, be pleased you didn't get the other

type. This is because truth nowadays is afraid to show its face, so it hides

itself in weird personality traits. Evil isn't afraid of anything, so they seem

absolutely normal.

B.

Men usually cease to be men after they are

married and become “husbands”, so don't be surprised when it happens. As you

know, you put out a special effort to be nice during the dating dance, so does

he. Men, by nature, put out a tremendous amount of energy in the wooing

process, but after they are married that energy just doesn't exist. And a man

will always fall back on whatever he was in the first place with all the same

quirks and weaknesses that he strove to hide while he was wooing you… This is

not an act of deception any more than the mating dance of the bees. It's just a

part of nature.

·

But there

may be many right ones like Rachel and Leah where Leah wasn't really meant for

Yaakov, but still it worked out well because there was still a true connection.

But his real mate was Rachel. [Since true mate is a matter of percentage, one

person might be 20% a true-mate and another 50%. As Rabbi Nachman explains,

every person may have many people that are connected with him in this way.]

Though the Rambam apparently disagrees with the idea of a true mate, this idea

of percentages explains it.]

·

The

problem of not finding one's proper mate is the modern-day plague on the entire

world. Just like 55 years ago World War II was the plague of the world for no

known reason except an inexplicable judgement that came into the world, so

today judgement of never finding one’s proper mate has come into the world.

(This is how today people are punished for their sins from previous lives.) The

more sex is idolized the more the newspapers around the world are filled with

“personals” of women who can't find any men and men who can't find any woman.

The exception is only the very wicked who God rewards their few good deeds with

sexual pleasure in this world in order that they should have no reward in the

next. The other exception is the very righteous who sanctify themselves at the

time of sex in which case the sexual act becomes a part of their Divine

worship.

·

Men's

problem is with lust; women's, with anger; legalize a man's right to be married

to two wives and you solve both problems. Dividing responsibilities between two

women whether there sexual or maintaining a household would be easier. The man

won't be on their nerves the whole time asking for sex or needing to be waited

on after a hard day at work. While one woman is a

nidah

the other would

be available for sex. Why be stricter than the Bible? As the Sages of the

Talmud say, “There aren't enough things God has forbidden, that we have to find

more? If only we would just keep what is already there.”

·

“All is

confounded by all-mastering time; faith dies, distrust is born; and the same

spirit is never steadfast among friends; for be it soon or late, men find sweet

turn to bitter, and then once more to love.” - Sophocles.

So -

families should stick together through the ups and downs; they will come out in

the end on top. When entering into a marriage one must be totally committed to

making it work no matter what. But that isn't enough. You have to be aware of

how committed your partner is to you. If it isn't the same degree, then all

your commitment won't help. And if they are committed to things about you, but

not to you, it also won't work. The only thing that can make a marriage work is

that both parties have this commitment and the emotional ability to stick with

a commitment.

·

Those

that are devout are attached to the divine trait of Ru

lership,

and

therefore there is a flow of children to them as Rabbi Nachman explains in the

Lekutai Morahan. That is the meaning of the statement of the Sages that the

redemption won't come until all the souls in “spiritual storehouse of souls”

will be born, which according to Rabbi Issaac Luria refers to the

Tree of

Knowledge of Good and Evil

which is the Divine trait of Ru

lership (

this

is the reason Rabbi Eliyahu from Vilna said that allowing two wives would

hasten the redemption).

·

“Love is the most

powerful force in the world.” -- James Cameron

Human

emotions are the most powerful forces bending and breaking and building

societies, philosophies, ideas, creating and destroying worlds, spiritual and

physical. But of all the emotions, love is the most powerful, the highest of

the seven lower sephirot (forces), but lower than the three higher ones

(fields).

·

At the

time of the revival of the dead they and all those who are supposed to be

together will be together - but that can only be accomplished by the readiness

to give up one's life for each other in this world. But

understanding

is

also on the level of self-sacrifice which shine upon those that love each

other; and that merit isn't just for them but for the correction of the whole

world - to create a better world at the time of the revival of the dead so that

all loved ones will be able to be together forever in God's light in the

physical and spiritual world which will all be one at that time, in the world

that will be above time and space.

·

A deeper

way to understand marriage would be to apply it to the two sephirot of Beauty

and Royalty. But the Divine Presence has fallen into the klipot, so many women

end up marrying some

klipah

and bringing more klipot into the world

unless she can free herself from the evil side. This is the reason it is

imbedded in the nature of women to be attracted to money and power.

·

Marriage

in America is particularly unstable. One out of two or three (depending on the

area) break down. The Jewish orthodox community which came from Europe took a generation

to get “Americanized”, and now their ratio is quickly reaching the same level.

Curiously though, in Christian communities where the family attends church

regularly the ratio is 1 out of 40. In families where not only do they attend

church, but also have daily devotional life and family prayer the ratio is 1

out of 400. These are staggering statistics. While I'm at this I will mention

the other curious fact that the healthiest state in the USA is Utah. Now you

might want to say that it is because it is in a desert region; but Colorado is

the unhealthiest (and it is also in a desert region). The difference would seem

to be the difference between the Mormons and Las Vegas. These statistics

conform with the idea of Jesus being the Messiah of Joseph [foundation of

Emanation the source of peace], for it is a principle of the Torah that by

following a saint one is blessed.

·

There are

as many types of marriage as there are types of human beings. However, the

basic types are:

1.

The spiritual marriage:

This

marriage is the revelation of an already existing bond. This one can weather

all obstacles, since its essence is eternal. But it requires that both mates be

homo-spiritualis — spiritual beings.

2.

The fun marriage:

This is

the marriage of the scientist philosopher whose motivating principle is

curiosity and creativity.

3.

The reasonable marriage:

Not bad

if based on feeling also, but reason is a very poor basis for human

relationships.

4.

The community sponsored marriage, or the

practical. i.e., those that wouldn't be together except for the honor one or

the other has from the community and the community support. These are put

together and kept together by the community. There is nothing holy about this.

It is purely biological. Marriage of the Jewish orthodox are of this type. [In

each of these four types, for the marriage to be stable they both have to be of

the same type of person. But as you can see a stable marriage doesn't mean there

is anything good about either person.]

·

There is

such a thing as finding the right person and knowing that it is so. But if the

love isn't like that of Jack and Rose (from the movie

Titanic

) where

each was willing to give up their lives for the other then I would say live

together for a year before you get married to see if you'll remain in love. [It

is worth it to mention that Jack's willingness to jump in after Rose was due to

his kind character, for he didn't know Rose at the time. The lesson is that a

kind person will be kind to everyone regardless of who it is.

·

All women

come in pairs. That is one reason why to allow two wives. Every man either has

no choice who to marry or two choices. Both are on the level of a true match.

Just one makes more sense but there is no love, just like the other makes no

sense but there is love. (Most marriages are the ones that make sense but there

is no love.

·

The

genius of the species wants improvement of the species so promiscuous sex is

not good because it is aimed at quantity, not quality. Marriage is possibly

good since the mates check out each other beforehand to see if they are

compatible which is in fact irrelevant but what does matter is that they convey

the information true the genius of the species which knows if the female male

aspects complement each other. If so, they get sexually aroused. None of this

has anything to do with compatibility or character.

The

reason for infatuation is that the genius of the species [y

echida

] sees

that the male and female aspect of these two individuals complement and

complete each other so the children may turn out better than either. However,

there is no guarantee that this will be the case since it still depends on

God's will. Promiscuous sex is evil since there is no possibility of improving

the species since there is no discretion as to whether the male and female

aspects complement each other.

Lack of

infatuation means a knowledge of the genius of the species that the children

resulting from the union will not be good. This is why the Jewish Orthodox

community deteriorates every generation. Even though there are no more arranged

marriages, but they also aren't based on love or infatuation. Therefore, one

must be very careful to marry only a person he or she is infatuated with. Even

if it only a temporary feeling it doesn't matter, for at least at the beginning

it has to be there.

Marriages

based on infatuation alone are not usually the stable ones and thus are not in

the best interest of the individuals involved, but the genius of the species is

looking for the good of the children. That is why they are attracted to each

other. Hopefully it should be possible to have marriages based on infatuation

that the more mature members of the family and friends also approve of so there

should be hope of stability also.

·

Keeping

one's area clean is important. However, there are several things to know about

cleanliness:

1)

Just because you are cleaning doesn't mean

you have to yell at everybody else to clean. If you want to be clean, very

nice, but don't make everyone miserable because of it.

2)

The reason TV was created was so that you can

clean your room while you are watching it.

3)

The reason you can't teach a teenager

cleanliness is that it has to come from inside, the teenager has to become

disgusted enough himself from living in filth to clean up. At any rate it is a

very important rule in parenting not to rule, not to take the rulership from

God. God alone is the Ruler and when one tries to rule others [or himself by

imposing arbitrary rules] one is infringing on God's rulership.

