Chapter 7 -

Marriage and Family

·

There are

five colors of blood that are unclean, and the other colors are pure even if

they are red. To the

Shulchan Aruch

, the Rambam and the Rif and the Rosh

and all the major authorities the women of today aren't

niddot

because

they don't have the feeling of the opening of the womb to let out blood.

Rav

Natrunai Gaon wrote that a

nidah

needs to go to the mikveh for marriage

relations only as a rabbinical decree. It is Biblical only if she goes into the

Temple in Jerusalem. So, we have a lot of doubts piling up one on the other all

in a case of what the major authorities consider to be not unclean in the first

place since there is no feeling of the opening of the womb. That is:

m

aybe it is a red that is clean. But if you'll say it is a

red that is not perhaps the law is like the majority of authorities that

without feeling it isn't unclean. But if you'll say the halachah is like the

Noda BeYehuda that a feeling of something flowing inside is also considered a

feeling, perhaps the law is like Rav Netrunai Gaon.

So, there

are a lot of reasons to say that after seven days she is pure immediately

without going to the mikvah. But its better to go to a natural body of water or

a

mikvah

if possible. Anyway, to have good children the sex should be

only on the Sabbath night (Friday night). After true midnight, after the

mikvah. This applies only to when it's possible for children to come from the

union. The main thing is for one to attach himself/herself to God while having

sex and not to fall into physicality, rather spirituality. [You could say also

that she doesn't even have to wait at all because of the first reasons]

·

A man can

marry two or more wives. The Cherem of Rabbenu Gershom was only until the year

1240 AD, as it says in the

Shulchan Aruch, Even Haezer (h

owever, in a

country where this isn't allowed, the marriages shouldn't be on paper). The

Gaon from Vilna said that to allow this would hasten the redemption for it

would bring into the world all the souls that need to be born before the

redemption and he said if he would have the strength, he would go from

congregation to congregation to tell them this.

·

A

swimming pool is a good

mikveh

if it's plugged up so that nothing leaks

- this is biblically speaking, but rabbinically, a natural body of water is

better.

·

Extra-marital

sex is allowed as long as it is in the boyfriend-girlfriend form, not one-night

stands.

A

mistress (i.e., girlfriend) is allowed according to the majority of the first

authorities (i.e., one need not be married to have sex - Ramban, Raavad, Rosh,

the Rambam according to the Ramban). There is

teshuva

of a later

authority that allows it. However, kabbalistically speaking, it’s better to be

married, because a mistress is on the level of the tree of knowledge of good

and evil upon which the klipot can take hold -- which they do anyway for

sensual sex even in marriage, but not being married makes the sex a bit more

prone to them.

·

Birth

control like the pill is allowed. The condom is forbidden according to Rabbenu

Tam. For the Gemara (Yevamot) says “three women have sex with a thick cloth in

order not to become pregnant” since it could result in their death if they

would become pregnant. Rashi explains they can put the towel there before sex.

Rabbenu Tam says after sex. Rashi says they are allowed to while Rabbenu Tam

says they must.

So far

for other women there is no permission to use a cloth at the time of sex. Those

that are looking for a permission want to explain the Ritvah as meaning the

towel is there at the time of sex and they must, implying that other women can.

(See the Tshuva of Rabbi Abraham Shneur Zalman and the New edition of the

Ritvah.) But the Ritva it says clearly that the three are required while others

are sometimes allowed, eg. before they are twelve years old, and others are

forbidden, e.g., girls older than twelve and a half. However, it seems to me to

ask a simple question according to the opinion of Rashi: If a condom would be

under the prohibition of spilling seed in vain then how could sex be allowed

even for those three women? Shouldn't they simply not have sex? It seems to me

from this that the prohibition isn't that of spilling seed but of the positive

command to be fruitful and multiply and that is why the whole discussion in

Tosphot revolves around that. So even though this whole thing is only like

Rabbi Meir against the majority opinion it does seem that there is someone to

depend on so I would have to allow it in case of necessity even though in all

probability it may be considered spilling seed in vain to the opinion of the

majority. [As the Gemara says,”Rabbi Meir is great enough to depend on in an

emergency”.]

·

A wife

isn't allowed to leave her husband except in a case where there is violence.

Just not liking him or his not being religious enough or too much

,

e

tc.,

are not valid

reasons. This is like the case which the Rema talks about when the husband was

playing cards and desecrated the Sabbath, etc., and the Rema said the wife has

no right to demand a divorce. Where the divorce is granted in

such a

case

by peer pressure brought upon the husband it’s a

get

mu'usa

(a forced divorce) which is invalid. It may be

advisable for people who don't want this problem to depend on the mistress

opinion and not have a full kiddushin.

·

Marriage

(kiddushin) is with two witnesses. However, according to the Ran [Rabbanu

Nissim] on Kiddushin 16b, the Rambam holds that kiddushin by

writing

doesn't need two witnesses.

·

Chupa is

bringing into the wife into the husband’s living quarters, which needs no

witnesses according to the Beit Shmuel in Shulchan Aruch. Ten people are

necessary only for the seven-blessings. Sex is allowed without the blessings.

The midrash says that angels are valid witnesses. At any rate, in conclusion,

to get married in a Kosher way without witnesses one needs to do the Kidushin

in writing and then to bring the bride into the husbands domain.

·

Oral sex

is forbidden since it is the equivalent of masturbation which the Zohar calls

the worst sin in the Torah and that he who does so goes to the bottom of hell

and stays there forever [unless he goes to the grave of Rabbi Nachman and says

there the ten psalms]. The girl that does that to a boy gets the same sin.

·

The

Gemara in Yevamot 76b says that King Solomon converted the daughter of

Pharaoh

. Tosphot  explains a later question of the Gemara to be

,

how could he have married her since she was a first

generation Egyptian; and answers that he didn't really marry her but “attached

himself to her for love” in the way of love, not in the way of marriage. Rashi

explains that the

Gemara

asks how can the verse call it marriage. And it

answers that he intended it to be in the way of prostitution. The

Maharsha

asks on

Rashi

then why was the

Gemara

forced to say she converted

since it could have been “in the way of prostitution” without it.

I think

Rashi's

reasoning must have been like this: A girlfriend is permitted to a King to all

opinions [the argument of the first authorities only applies to everyone else]

.

The

Gemara in Avoda

Z

ara

36 says that to

the Rabbis opinion, marriage with the seven Canaanite nations is forbidden; and

there was a later rabbinical decree to forbid all idolators.

To Rabbi

Shimon Bar Yochai all idolators are forbidden to live with in the way of

marriage from the Torah [but real

kidushin

isn't applicable] and the

Beit

Din

of

Shem

forbid even to live with them in the way of

prostitution.

It seems

clear to me that Solomon held like Rabbi Yehuda in

Bava Kama

115a since

he depended on the fact that the verse gave a reason why the king shouldn't

marry many wives, so he depended on the idea that if the reason doesn't apply

the law doesn't apply. Thus, the daughter of

Pharaoh

would have been forbidden to him even not in the way of marriage unless he

converted her.

Tosphot

it seems

holds like the

R

abbis. So, she would have been permitted to him without

converting, even as an idolator as long as it wasn't in the way of marriage or

publicly. Then the question of the Gemara begins only after he converted her.

[Incidentally Rabbi Shimon is the

Tana

in the

Yerushalmi

that

says Solomon didn't marry her but intended her as a “girlfriend” like Rashi.]

Rabbinical law only applies in a place and time that there is a possibility of

transgressing the biblical law

-

this is a

general principle throughout the whole Talmud

.

Specifically, reading

from a light on

Yom Kippur

is permitted because there is no fear one

will come to tilt. Rav sent to his non-Jewish friend in Babylon a present since

he knew that he wasn't an idolator and the Rosh and Ritva explain the laws

pertaining to non-Jews in general only pertain in places where there are

idolators. Thus

,

since the seven Canaanite

nations are no longer common among us [and to the Rambam no longer exist] to

the rabbis marrying even an idolator is permitted. To Rabbi Shimon marrying an

idolator is forbidden but marrying a non -Jew who isn't an idolator is

permitted.

Rabbi

Shimon held in general that there is a logical basis for each commandment and

in a case where that basis doesn't apply the commandment doesn't apply as in

Bava Kama 115a where he says one can take as a pledge the garment of a rich

widow since the law of the Torah of not taking the garment of a widow should

logically apply only to a poor widow for the reason given there in the Gemara.

This isn't the Halacha but there are many cases where we depend on Rabbi Shimon

in a case of need in other opinions of his and we say “Rabbi Shimon is great

enough to depend on in case of need” as in new grain before the Omer outside of

Israel.

·

The

Gemara (Nedarim 20) says, “The halacha is not like Rabbi Yochanan ben Dahavai,”

i.e., in everything he said or just the last things. [Rabbi Yochanan Ben

Dahavai said not to have sex face to back or to kiss in that spot or to talk at

that time or to look at that spot. Rabbi Yochanan said the halacha is not like

Rabbi Yochanan ben Dahavai, rather anything a person wants to do with his wife

he can do. Most authorities hold Rabbi Yochanan meant the halacha is not like

him only concerning face to back but the Rambam holds it refers to everything

he said.

It would

seem to me this may explain the Gemara in Nidda that the house of Munbaz had

sex during the day light and the Sages praised them because there was a

necessity in their case. If we are deferring to necessity perhaps that implies

a wider range of permission than the other authorities held from. However, from

here we don't get permission for sex with a light on at night which the Gemara

specifically forbids. [Obviously Yaakov Avinu held by this for otherwise why

didn't he know that she was Leah, not Rachel]?! Just sex in the daytime or the

other things referred to would be permitted. I think there may be some

permission for candle-light for other opinions outside the gemara for this the

Mishnah seems to imply explicitly. But I haven't found any such permission yet.

And even if I would, the Gemara clearly doesn't hold by it. I vaguely recall

some

Yerushalmi

that may have implied so much.

·

If the

mother or father transgress the Torah one is not obligated to honor them to the

Samag

and the

Tur

. The Rambam holds however that one is still

obligated to honor them. However, if they transgress knowingly the Torah, even

the Rambam would agree. The first category is not talking about wicked people

it's simply like citizenship: people that don't keep the Torah are not in the

category of “your people”; obligations the Torah imposes on citizens of the

Torah don't apply. But people that transgress the Torah knowingly are much

worse than not being citizens but are considered enemies of the state. I wish

to add that when the mitzvah of honoring one’s parents does apply, the

Yerushalmi calls it the

severest of the

severe of

all the

mitzvot

. I highly advice children to honor their parents no

matter how bad they may be, but if there is a case where the child simply needs

to protect himself from a destructive parent, then the child simply, should not

speak to the parent at all and live elsewhere.

·

The

modern ideas of women's lib are against the Torah. The woman is obligated by

the Torah to listen to her husband. He is not obligated to listen to her.

Though it is advisable to honor her, there is no obligation halachically

speaking. As Tosphot says in the beginning of Meshechta Ketubot, “The woman is

the field [property] of the husband, and the husband is not the field”. If she

refuses to do the three basic types of work and the five additional ones

according to the Rambam she is beaten by order of the court until she complies.

[Mishna Torah, Hilchot Ishut, 2].

If she

wants a divorce under these circumstances, then the divorce is invalid since it

is forced and not in accord with the law.  The reason for these laws is

simple.The male or female soul is not an entity in itself, and the popular idea

of individuality simply extinguishes the individual soul. There is no such

thing as a connection with another person as long as all that matters is one's

own benefit.

The idea

of each person respecting the individuality of the other is a lot of garbage.

The human soul is buried so deep that the only way of finding it and expressing

it is in connection with others. The expression of the individual can only

exist when it is part of the whole - for then the divine light has a whole

vessel to come upon. [And thus, the individual divine light that is the center

of her soul can only come if she is connected with him.]

·

The

fabric of society is the family. Since the bonds that bind husband and wife

together are dissolved in spirituality [Zei

r

and N

ukvah

], they

can't exist in physicality. Thus, America needs to return to being a

Judeo-Christian society. However, those spiritual bonds have been broken for

2000 years. The reason families have still survived is because of the righteous

that bind together the upper husband and wife. At any rate it would be logical

to assume from this that saying the midnight prayer would help to get one and

keep one married to his/her proper mate. But this is only possible not

necessarily so since in the general surrounding light those bonds may no longer

exist.

Chapter

8 -

Learning Torah

·

One is

not allowed to learn Torah having in mind to use it for a living. However, it

is proper to learn Torah and to trust in God to provide in a way that he

shouldn't be using the Torah or be receiving charity as both are forbidden.

Rabbi Israel Salanter held that it is allowed to be a rabbi (and to earn money

thereby) so it seems he depended on the

Tashbatz

even though it is

against the Rambam.

·

The

disagreement between the Rambam and the

Tashbatz

is if one is allowed to

learn Torah and depend on the idea that he will be given charity. The

Tashbatz

permits this. However, one is not allowed to say one verse or one word of Torah

in order to make money. This is forbidden to all opinions, and one that does so

has no portion in the next world. This includes the idea of taking a test in

order to show that one knows some subject in Torah in order to get a

kollel

paycheck.

·

Women are

not allowed to learn Torah as the

Rambam

,

Rif

,

Rosh

,

Tur

and

Shulchan Aruch

write. The Talmud quotes Rabbi Eliezer the Rabbi of

Rabbi Akiva: “It's better for words of the Torah to be burned than to be given

into the hands of women.”

·

There is

an obligation of saying the

parsha

[section] of the Torah of each week

twice and the Aramaic translation once. The way to do this is saying the

section of every day once and then the Aramaic during the week. Then on Shabbat

to say the entire

parsha

once. There is no need to say the Aramaic

before the second saying of the Hebrew.

Chapter 9 - Converts to

Judaism

·

To become Jewish a

woman needs only to go to the mikveh for the sake of

getting

married, or for

nida

, to clean herself from her cycle.

·

If a

non-Jewish woman goes into the mikveh or ocean for the sake of getting married

to a Jew or to purify herself she automatically becomes Jewish as Rav Asi said

in the Gemarah in Yevamot (the second way is as Rashi explains there).

·

Someone

not believing in God, or the Oral and Written Law is not Jewish, no matter if

their parents are Jewish.

—

Rambam in the Commentary to Sanhedrin

·

The

Rambam says in the Commentary on the Mishna in Sanhedrin that one who believes

in the 13-Principles-of-Faith is in the category of Israel and it is a mitzva

to love him even if he does all the sins he can possibly do. I think the Rambam

means that he is in the category of Israel but not actually Jewish until he

goes into the mikvah [as per the Talmud and

Mishna

Torah].

To Rav

Sadiah Gaon the main principles are three: God's existence, that he is one, and

reward and punishment. To Rav sadiah Gaon it is easy to see that many non Jews

can come under the category of Israel.

Chapter 10 - Non-Jews

·

The

non-Jews in the USA aren't idol worshipers. The Rashba and the Meiri held the

Christians are in the category of

gerei toshav

. Even if you don't go

that far the Rambam held they are not idolators. The Tosphot at the beginning

of

Avodah Zara

also says that the christians aren't idolators. The

reason this is relevant is that there is not, and never was, any rabbinical

decree not to marry a non-Jew who isn't an idolator.

·

To the

rabbis in the Gemara in

Avodah Zara

36b, the Biblical law is only not to

marry anyone from the 7-Canaanite nations and the rabbinical decree is not to

marry any idolators. To Rabbi Shimon Bar Yochai, who the

halachah

is

like in this case, the Biblical law not to marry any idolators [“All those who

induce to idolatry…”] and the rabbinical decree is not to have sex with them

outside of marriage [this doesn't expand the law horizontally to include more

people than the Torah forbids rather vertically to increase the degree of

strictness. The law is like Rabbi Shimon in this case since the later

authorities go like him. Thus, there is no law against marrying a non-Jew who

doesn't worship idols]. In neither opinion is there any law against marrying a

non­Jew who isn't an idolator.

Rabbi

Shimon specifically refers only to idolators and expands the law to include not

having sex with them even out of marriage. To the rabbis in the first opinion

the Biblical law is only the seven nations, and they expand it to include all

idolators. Even though the language of the Gemara is “idolators” I think the

rabbis forbid all non-Jews because otherwise who is the Braita in Mesechet

Gerim that says marrying a Ger Toshav is forbidden, unless you want to say that

is the opinion of Rabbi Meir that a Ger Toshav accepts on himself only not to

eat non-kosher meat. [You could answer this in a thousand ways, but they are

relevant to the Halacha which to them also doesn't apply after the seven

nations aren't around anymore, as the Rambam says, so to them the whole

rabbinical law is null and void since the situation it was made to guard

against is non-existent.

·

However,

there is one more decree specifically not to marry a Samaritan for the specific

reason mentioned in Rashi

Shabbat

16b [see Mesechet Gerim] which only

applies to them, since legally they are Jewish, but they don't keep the

mensural laws properly. This simply doesn't apply to non-Jews.

·

The Baal

Shem Tov and the entire school of Chasidut are pretty regular in saying that

the desire for money is equivalent to idolatry and I believe they mean it more

than a platitude, but as a halachah. Even though this may be hard to decide in

a court of law, but I think they believed anyone who loves money has the

halachic definition of an idolater. The implication is that even a religious

Jew can come into this category.

·

It is

permitted to walk into a Catholic church even though there are statues there

since the Gemara says in Avodah Zara 43b that the father of Shmuel and Levi

used to go to a synagogue where there was a statue and weren't afraid that

perhaps people would misconstrue their intentions (both Rashi and the Rosh

explain that that statue wasn't just for beauty but rather was an idol).

However, it seems to me that it is better not to go there, for it still is

better not to pray in a place where there are idols.

Chapter 11 – The Argument

between the Gra and the Chassidim

·

The

argument of the Gra (Rabbi Eliyahu from Vilna) and the chasidim has always been

beyond my reach because he (the Gra) really did say they (the chasidim) are

klipat

noga

- and looking at them today who can disagree? But the one point I

still hold by is that the excommunication wasn't on the Baal Shem Tov but the

disciples of HaMagid (Rabbi Dov Ber from Mezritsh).

·

I still

can't answer the defenses of the Baal Hatanya who wrote that the

excommunication was against those who disrespected those who learn Torah and

the words of the Sages and he wrote, “I know that I do not disrespect those who

learn Torah, nor the words of the Sages,  i.e., even if the excommunication may

have applied to many or even all of his chasidim he knew it didn't apply to

him.

·

The truth

be told, the excommunication of the Gra was outside the limits of the halachah

-- to excommunicate half the Jewish people without even bringing them to court.

The Gra held it was

migdar milsa

(the need of the hour) but further he

may have had some type of Divine Spirit that in fact something was wrong there.

So, if the excommunication applies, it any in any case couldn't have applied to

Rabbi Nachman for neither he nor his parents were disciples of the Magid which

were the specific target of the excommunication (in any case, I made a beit din

by Shmuel HaNavi to nullify it.)

This is

the spiritual uncertainty principle in action.

If you

look at either, they become a particle and the argument is clear and one is

right and the other wrong but if you don't look, and totally ignore it they

become waves that reinforce each other in certain things and destructively

interfere in others. For instance, to learn Torah you have to be connected to

the Gra. “No Gra means no Torah”. [Chasidish Torah is just to show that they

learn Torah but it's not Torah.]

Any

connection with chasidim will interfere. To have real prayer, i.e., private

prayer you have to be connected to Rabbi Nachman. Now, in order to solve this

and try to get both flows, this will cause both flows to become particles and

lose their connection to the light. [

Unless both can be fitted into the

vessels of

Tohu

.

]
