Chapter 7 -

Marriage and Family

·

There are

five colors of blood that are unclean, and the other colors are pure even if

they are red. To the

Shulchan Aruch

, the Rambam and the Rif and the Rosh

and all the major authorities the women of today aren't

niddot

because

they don't have the feeling of the opening of the womb to let out blood.

Rav

Natrunai Gaon wrote that a

nidah

needs to go to the mikveh for marriage

relations only as a rabbinical decree. It is Biblical only if she goes into the

Temple in Jerusalem. So, we have a lot of doubts piling up one on the other all

in a case of what the major authorities consider to be not unclean in the first

place since there is no feeling of the opening of the womb. That is:

m

aybe it is a red that is clean. But if you'll say it is a

red that is not perhaps the law is like the majority of authorities that

without feeling it isn't unclean. But if you'll say the halachah is like the

Noda BeYehuda that a feeling of something flowing inside is also considered a

feeling, perhaps the law is like Rav Netrunai Gaon.

So, there

are a lot of reasons to say that after seven days she is pure immediately

without going to the mikvah. But its better to go to a natural body of water or

a

mikvah

if possible. Anyway, to have good children the sex should be

only on the Sabbath night (Friday night). After true midnight, after the

mikvah. This applies only to when it's possible for children to come from the

union. The main thing is for one to attach himself/herself to God while having

sex and not to fall into physicality, rather spirituality. [You could say also

that she doesn't even have to wait at all because of the first reasons]

·

A man can

marry two or more wives. The Cherem of Rabbenu Gershom was only until the year

1240 AD, as it says in the

Shulchan Aruch, Even Haezer (h

owever, in a

country where this isn't allowed, the marriages shouldn't be on paper). The

Gaon from Vilna said that to allow this would hasten the redemption for it

would bring into the world all the souls that need to be born before the
