
Avodah Zara

also says that the christians aren't idolators. The

reason this is relevant is that there is not, and never was, any rabbinical

decree not to marry a non-Jew who isn't an idolator.

·

To the

rabbis in the Gemara in

Avodah Zara

36b, the Biblical law is only not to

marry anyone from the 7-Canaanite nations and the rabbinical decree is not to

marry any idolators. To Rabbi Shimon Bar Yochai, who the

halachah

is

like in this case, the Biblical law not to marry any idolators [“All those who

induce to idolatry…”] and the rabbinical decree is not to have sex with them

outside of marriage [this doesn't expand the law horizontally to include more

people than the Torah forbids rather vertically to increase the degree of

strictness. The law is like Rabbi Shimon in this case since the later

authorities go like him. Thus, there is no law against marrying a non-Jew who

doesn't worship idols]. In neither opinion is there any law against marrying a

non­Jew who isn't an idolator.

Rabbi

Shimon specifically refers only to idolators and expands the law to include not

having sex with them even out of marriage. To the rabbis in the first opinion

the Biblical law is only the seven nations, and they expand it to include all

idolators. Even though the language of the Gemara is “idolators” I think the

rabbis forbid all non-Jews because otherwise who is the Braita in Mesechet

Gerim that says marrying a Ger Toshav is forbidden, unless you want to say that

is the opinion of Rabbi Meir that a Ger Toshav accepts on himself only not to

eat non-kosher meat. [You could answer this in a thousand ways, but they are

relevant to the Halacha which to them also doesn't apply after the seven

nations aren't around anymore, as the Rambam says, so to them the whole

rabbinical law is null and void since the situation it was made to guard

against is non-existent.

·

However,

there is one more decree specifically not to marry a Samaritan for the specific

reason mentioned in Rashi

Shabbat

16b [see Mesechet Gerim] which only

applies to them, since legally they are Jewish, but they don't keep the

mensural laws properly. This simply doesn't apply to non-Jews.

·

The Baal

Shem Tov and the entire school of Chasidut are pretty regular in saying that

the desire for money is equivalent to idolatry and I believe they mean it more
