
redemption and he said if he would have the strength, he would go from

congregation to congregation to tell them this.

·

A

swimming pool is a good

mikveh

if it's plugged up so that nothing leaks

- this is biblically speaking, but rabbinically, a natural body of water is

better.

·

Extra-marital

sex is allowed as long as it is in the boyfriend-girlfriend form, not one-night

stands.

A

mistress (i.e., girlfriend) is allowed according to the majority of the first

authorities (i.e., one need not be married to have sex - Ramban, Raavad, Rosh,

the Rambam according to the Ramban). There is

teshuva

of a later

authority that allows it. However, kabbalistically speaking, it’s better to be

married, because a mistress is on the level of the tree of knowledge of good

and evil upon which the klipot can take hold -- which they do anyway for

sensual sex even in marriage, but not being married makes the sex a bit more

prone to them.

·

Birth

control like the pill is allowed. The condom is forbidden according to Rabbenu

Tam. For the Gemara (Yevamot) says “three women have sex with a thick cloth in

order not to become pregnant” since it could result in their death if they

would become pregnant. Rashi explains they can put the towel there before sex.

Rabbenu Tam says after sex. Rashi says they are allowed to while Rabbenu Tam

says they must.

So far

for other women there is no permission to use a cloth at the time of sex. Those

that are looking for a permission want to explain the Ritvah as meaning the

towel is there at the time of sex and they must, implying that other women can.

(See the Tshuva of Rabbi Abraham Shneur Zalman and the New edition of the

Ritvah.) But the Ritva it says clearly that the three are required while others

are sometimes allowed, eg. before they are twelve years old, and others are

forbidden, e.g., girls older than twelve and a half. However, it seems to me to

ask a simple question according to the opinion of Rashi: If a condom would be

under the prohibition of spilling seed in vain then how could sex be allowed

even for those three women? Shouldn't they simply not have sex? It seems to me

from this that the prohibition isn't that of spilling seed but of the positive

command to be fruitful and multiply and that is why the whole discussion in

Tosphot revolves around that. So even though this whole thing is only like
