
enough to depend on in case of need” as in new grain before the Omer outside of

Israel.

·

The

Gemara (Nedarim 20) says, “The halacha is not like Rabbi Yochanan ben Dahavai,”

i.e., in everything he said or just the last things. [Rabbi Yochanan Ben

Dahavai said not to have sex face to back or to kiss in that spot or to talk at

that time or to look at that spot. Rabbi Yochanan said the halacha is not like

Rabbi Yochanan ben Dahavai, rather anything a person wants to do with his wife

he can do. Most authorities hold Rabbi Yochanan meant the halacha is not like

him only concerning face to back but the Rambam holds it refers to everything

he said.

It would

seem to me this may explain the Gemara in Nidda that the house of Munbaz had

sex during the day light and the Sages praised them because there was a

necessity in their case. If we are deferring to necessity perhaps that implies

a wider range of permission than the other authorities held from. However, from

here we don't get permission for sex with a light on at night which the Gemara

specifically forbids. [Obviously Yaakov Avinu held by this for otherwise why

didn't he know that she was Leah, not Rachel]?! Just sex in the daytime or the

other things referred to would be permitted. I think there may be some

permission for candle-light for other opinions outside the gemara for this the

Mishnah seems to imply explicitly. But I haven't found any such permission yet.

And even if I would, the Gemara clearly doesn't hold by it. I vaguely recall

some

Yerushalmi

that may have implied so much.

·

If the

mother or father transgress the Torah one is not obligated to honor them to the

Samag

and the

Tur

. The Rambam holds however that one is still

obligated to honor them. However, if they transgress knowingly the Torah, even

the Rambam would agree. The first category is not talking about wicked people

it's simply like citizenship: people that don't keep the Torah are not in the

category of “your people”; obligations the Torah imposes on citizens of the

Torah don't apply. But people that transgress the Torah knowingly are much

worse than not being citizens but are considered enemies of the state. I wish

to add that when the mitzvah of honoring one’s parents does apply, the

Yerushalmi calls it the

severest of the

severe of

all the

mitzvot
