
. I highly advice children to honor their parents no

matter how bad they may be, but if there is a case where the child simply needs

to protect himself from a destructive parent, then the child simply, should not

speak to the parent at all and live elsewhere.

·

The

modern ideas of women's lib are against the Torah. The woman is obligated by

the Torah to listen to her husband. He is not obligated to listen to her.

Though it is advisable to honor her, there is no obligation halachically

speaking. As Tosphot says in the beginning of Meshechta Ketubot, “The woman is

the field [property] of the husband, and the husband is not the field”. If she

refuses to do the three basic types of work and the five additional ones

according to the Rambam she is beaten by order of the court until she complies.

[Mishna Torah, Hilchot Ishut, 2].

If she

wants a divorce under these circumstances, then the divorce is invalid since it

is forced and not in accord with the law.  The reason for these laws is

simple.The male or female soul is not an entity in itself, and the popular idea

of individuality simply extinguishes the individual soul. There is no such

thing as a connection with another person as long as all that matters is one's

own benefit.

The idea

of each person respecting the individuality of the other is a lot of garbage.

The human soul is buried so deep that the only way of finding it and expressing

it is in connection with others. The expression of the individual can only

exist when it is part of the whole - for then the divine light has a whole

vessel to come upon. [And thus, the individual divine light that is the center

of her soul can only come if she is connected with him.]

·

The

fabric of society is the family. Since the bonds that bind husband and wife

together are dissolved in spirituality [Zei

r

and N

ukvah

], they

can't exist in physicality. Thus, America needs to return to being a

Judeo-Christian society. However, those spiritual bonds have been broken for

2000 years. The reason families have still survived is because of the righteous

that bind together the upper husband and wife. At any rate it would be logical

to assume from this that saying the midnight prayer would help to get one and

keep one married to his/her proper mate. But this is only possible not

necessarily so since in the general surrounding light those bonds may no longer

exist.

Chapter

8 -
