
than a platitude, but as a halachah. Even though this may be hard to decide in

a court of law, but I think they believed anyone who loves money has the

halachic definition of an idolater. The implication is that even a religious

Jew can come into this category.

·

It is

permitted to walk into a Catholic church even though there are statues there

since the Gemara says in Avodah Zara 43b that the father of Shmuel and Levi

used to go to a synagogue where there was a statue and weren't afraid that

perhaps people would misconstrue their intentions (both Rashi and the Rosh

explain that that statue wasn't just for beauty but rather was an idol).

However, it seems to me that it is better not to go there, for it still is

better not to pray in a place where there are idols.

Chapter 11 – The Argument

between the Gra and the Chassidim

·

The

argument of the Gra (Rabbi Eliyahu from Vilna) and the chasidim has always been

beyond my reach because he (the Gra) really did say they (the chasidim) are

klipat

noga

- and looking at them today who can disagree? But the one point I

still hold by is that the excommunication wasn't on the Baal Shem Tov but the

disciples of HaMagid (Rabbi Dov Ber from Mezritsh).

·

I still

can't answer the defenses of the Baal Hatanya who wrote that the

excommunication was against those who disrespected those who learn Torah and

the words of the Sages and he wrote, “I know that I do not disrespect those who

learn Torah, nor the words of the Sages,  i.e., even if the excommunication may

have applied to many or even all of his chasidim he knew it didn't apply to

him.

·

The truth

be told, the excommunication of the Gra was outside the limits of the halachah

-- to excommunicate half the Jewish people without even bringing them to court.

The Gra held it was

migdar milsa

(the need of the hour) but further he

may have had some type of Divine Spirit that in fact something was wrong there.

So, if the excommunication applies, it any in any case couldn't have applied to

Rabbi Nachman for neither he nor his parents were disciples of the Magid which

were the specific target of the excommunication (in any case, I made a beit din

by Shmuel HaNavi to nullify it.)

This is

the spiritual uncertainty principle in action.
