Chapter 3 - Shabbat

·

The

reason the halacha is like Rabbenu Tam that the night starts 90 or 72 minutes

after sunset is that the Shulchan Aruch and the Magen Abraham, the majority of

the Rishonim (1st authorities), Rav Sadia Gaon, and the Arizal all hold like

him. (The Radvaz even shows that the Rambam holds like Rabbanu Tam) (72 minutes

is if a mil is 18 minutes. 96 is if it is 24 like the Rambam says in the Perush

HaMishna. The Chasam Sofer says it is 22.5 so that it comes out 90 minutes. The

Maharam Shik brings many authorities like son of the Rambam that say the world

is round and he assumes that disproves Rabbenu Tam, yet we find Tosphot

Rid in

Shabbat says openly that the world is round and

yet explains Rabbenu Tam accordingly.

Besides

this also there is the fact that medium stars don't come out until about 60 min

after sunset, and stars continue to come out until about 3 hours after sunset.

Now to know the medium sized number of a set of numbers, you have to see all

the numbers first. Similarly, to know what a medium star looks like you have to

see all the stars first (that the human eye can see). Then after you have seen

all the stars at midnight in a place where the small stars aren't obstructed by

city lights, like in a desert or the mountains, and you have judged 3 medium

stars, then the second night you will find that they don't become visible until

about 60 minutes after sunset.

This is

according to the majority of the authorities, but I don't understand why the

Gemara in Shabbat and the Gemara in Pesachim can't just be disagreeing, and

both be talking about the first

shkia

(sunset). Even though most

authorities don't go for this kind of thinking, but the Rambam does. He doesn't

believe the entire Shas has to be self-consistent [Miguel de Unamuno said, “If

a person never contradict's himself, it must be that he says nothing.” Thus, it

would seem to me a simple explanation that the Rambam in Hilchot Shabbat is not

like Rabbanu Tam even though the Radvaz says it is. So, I tend to think it is

better to be strict and accept Shabbat at the first sunset but not do work on

Saturday night until 90 minutes.

·

Carrying

in a public domain is forbidden.  But one can depend on Rashi and the  Tosphot

that a public domain is only one in which 600,000 people travel through daily.

(In a case of need one can depend on a lenient opinion even in a biblical

matter.) [However, the Rambam doesn't hold this way, so it is preferable not to

carry even in the place where there is an

eruv

which is worthless if it
