
actually is a public domain. To the Rambam in fact even a lonely dirt road

between two cities is a public domain Biblically and carrying there four steps

is against the Torah. However, I do believe that one can depend on Rashi and

Tosphot whose opinion is brought in the Shulchan Aruch as a “Some say”.

Apparently, Rabbi Yoseph Karo himself didn't want to make a final decision in

this case. Perhaps because the Rambam holds you don't need 600,000 and the Rosh

holds you do, and the Rif isn't clear. So, the Beit Yoseph couldn't use his

normal method of using the majority of these three authorities. But if we

continue his method of going in that case to the other authorities then the

majority

do hold

by Rashi.

·

Playing a

musical instrument on the Sabbath is permitted. People in general are not

experts in making musical instruments, so the reason for the rabbinical decree

doesn't apply (i.e., that people might fix the instrument if it breaks.). This

is in accordance with the opinion of the Rashbam and Raavad that once the

reason for a decree doesn't exist the decree is automatically null and void.

And even to the Rambam one can apply this (as it says in the book

Or Zarua

Le Tzadik

of Rabbi Zadok HaCohen in Chapter 2). The reason he gives there

is the same as the Rosh in the beginning of

Avoda Zarah

. The amazing

thing is that the Rosh assumes a law made by the Sanhedrin only applies in the

time and place it was meant for.

·

It is

allowed to use electricity on Shabbat. It is not fire. Nor is it Tikun Mana.

(Each time you turn on your TV, you are not making a new TV set). However, one

is not allowed to do any type of labor with it — like cooking.

·

One is

allowed to write on the computer on the Shabbat since the letters are not

Ashurit

(Hebrew script) and the letters are not stored in the viable form. So, this is

a case of two rabbinical decrees — one against the other — and therefore

allowed. Drawing on the computer on Shabbat however is forbidden.

[The

Shulchan Aruch says that to purchase land in Israel, one is allowed write up

the documents on the Shabbat — since he is writing in a different language than

Hebrew. However, the fact that it is a different language wouldn't be enough

since that is forbidden rabbinically. However, the rabbinical prohibition is permitted

in this case.]
