Time is

in Kabbalah a ‘perfect form’ and has 613 parts, and an inner essence, and an

outer essence. The faster one goes the closer he gets to the inner essence, and

thus time slows down. (This is what Rabbi Nachman calls “the time becomes

unified into one and the length becomes shorter — what Rabbi Nachman calls “The

Place” becomes unified into one. Here, Rabbi Nachman predicts the existence of

black-holes with a singularity inside).

This

means that time is like an electro-magnetic wave that flows through the time

field. So, one year is four spiritual waves, the Rosh Hashanah wave starting

and finishing on Rosh Hashanah. (But this is different in terms that its

highest point is on Shavuot and lowest on Tisha BeAv), and at right angles to

it is the month wave (starting in Nissan), and at a right angle to that is the

week wave and then there is the day wave, so the whole thing is one big shear

wave in 4 dimensions traveling through the time field like a gravitational wave

in the space time field. Rabbi Nachman says the month wave used to start on

Passover (i.e. like a cosine function where the origin is the highest point but

now he says it originates on Purim.

·

There are

infinite levels that the Lekutai Moharan works on. The Lekutai Moharan was

meant to be valid and consistent at every possible level as I heard once from

some university professor on the way to Rabbi Nachman for Rosh Hashanah. Before

that I had believed that every level in it was one specific level and my only

question was how to verify which level it was speaking about. Now I believe

that in each specific world the Lekutai Moharan has a specific level but it

applies to each world differently. I also think that the books of the Baal

HaTanya in general contain the hints necessary to decipher the intent of the

Lekutai Moharan in Emanation.

·

Rabbi

Nachman predicts the fact that in a large gravitational field, time slows down,

for by the Divine Presence where there is a large amount of energy he says the

time becomes unified into a singularity.

·

Rabbi

Nachman said even on the left side there is a right and a left. This means that

all spiritual systems are like a vertical totem pole with the wisdom on top but

what determines a person's spirituality isn't the vertical level but the

horizontal closeness to the vertical column (of the infinite light). For

instance, lets say a person is Jewish — that puts him on a high rung of the

ladder. But it doesn't have anything to do with whether he is good or evil.

Only the horizontal closeness to

[IMAGE: image052.gif]

determines that. [i.e., only

the x-coordinate determines good or evil. The y-coordinate determines the rung

of existence], and further even in good or evil there is right and left. That

is, the evil of evil or the good of evil, i.e. that even an evil person won't

go to that degree of evil.

·

Concerning

the way of learning recommended by Rabbi Nachman — of just saying the words in

order, and having faith that one will eventually understand — it is interesting

to see the

Maharsha

on

Avoda Zara

19a, who says that the two ways

of learning of just saying the words, or being exact, and repeating the ideas

over and over until one gets it is a argument in the Gemara over there.

Then, the

Gemara says that the rabbis knew the statements about learning carefully but

didn't listen to it because they followed the advice of just saying the words.

To the Maharsha, Rav Nachman bar Issac learned in the quick way but still had

success in his learning. [The argument if Sinai is better or uprooter of

mountains would also seem to be relevant. The Gemara concludes that Sinai is

better.] <???> <What do you mean by uprooter of mountains or

sinai?>

·

There are

five books of Rabbi Nachman: three are his exact words, and two are the things

Rabbi Nathan remembered that he said and wrote down. There are no other

traditions from him contrary to what is commonly supposed.

For

instance, there is a commonly known saying which he said, that there would be

no other Rebbi after him. However, when a Rav of Breslov died in Safed years

ago, all the Breslovers made it a point to advertise throughout the Jewish

community in New York that the Rav of Breslov had died for the publicity they

would get from it. No Breslover then in Jerusalem, or New York, or Safed said

anything about this supposed tradition.

However,

when only a few years later when Rav Shick started printing books that had his

picture on them, and written underneath was, “The Leader of Breslov” [and Rav

Shick was already very unpopular with the Breslover community for years] all of

a sudden this tradition popped up.

Now when

did Rabbi Nachman say it? If before the guy from Safed died, why did nobody

remember it then? Then it must be that it was after that guy died. But Rabbi

Nachman himself passed away two hundred years ago. So it is obvious that Rabbi

Nachman never said such a thing — and this is just another example of a very

common phenomenon I have noticed in the Orthodox community, i.e., making up

history to suit their political and financial needs.

·

Though

Rabbi Nachman attacked the

Guide

to the

Perplexed, there are many

principles that he gets from there, like that “taking care of the body comes

before taking care of the soul,” (

Guide

III:27). Or the idea that

prophecy is an extension of the power of imagination [the

Guide

II:38],

the idea that prophecy is by an angel to all prophets except Moses [the

Guide

II:24].

·

Advice

from Rabbi Nachman has to be taken with a grain of salt, i.e., what he would

call Tzitzum. The mikvah may be able to sweeten judgements but what about the

guy that was killed in Israel going to the mikvah and the child that died after

his parent put him in the  freezing mikvah of the Ari. in Safed.Even if one has

had seed come out of him at night, Rabbi Nachman said it is nothing unless it

came also with sexual thoughts. The reason the mikvah no  longer works like it

did for the Baal Shem Tov is that for him it was a time for  private prayer.

Now that it is no longer private it is a waste of time unless in the case that

Rabbi Nachman specifically said it for.

All the

advice of Rabbi Nachman has to be taken in this way--think: “Will this action

increase my devakus in God ?” If the logical answer to that question is no then

even if Rabbi Nachman said it is a good thing to do, he meant it for a

different situation than the one that exists now for you. The only thing that

he said one must do regardless of whether it increases his personal devakus or

not is to be by him for every Rosh Hashanah

·

Rabbi

Nachman explains that in the higher Intelligence time goes slower and in that

all the days of one’s life are instantaneous. The reason for this is that from

the point of view of one who is moving at the speed of light all, events,

future and past, appear simultaneously. Thus, the way to get attached to God,

and included in that higher Intelligence, is by moving at the speed of light in

spiritual terms. Of course, that is impossible for matter: therefore, one has

to go into a closet and not be seen by himself or others, and then his wave

function can be manifested, and he can become attached to God by attaching

their thoughts to Him. However, since sin separates one from God as it says in

the verse, “your sins were dividing between you and your God”, one needs go to

the grave of Rabbi Nachman. However, the idea of serving God is not to be

attached to any saint but to God alone; one should try to attach himself to God

directly. Attaching oneself to a saint may not be idolatry, since the saint is

attached himself to God, but it still isn't the main idea. However,

unattachment to God as when one's mind is occupied with things separate from

God,

is

idolatry. Yet, by faith that there is nothing besides Him, one

can serve God by himself himself all things.

·

Rabbi

Nachman apparently hold

s

that prayer is above Torah, and the Talmud says

learning Torah [even one word -- the mishnah in

Peah

makes clear that

there is no lower limit to the amount, i.e., even an infinitesimal amount of

learning is more than all the commandments -- which includes prayer] is above

all

mitzvot

. One [Rabbi Nathan’s] explanation is that prayer for

physical things is below Torah, as the sages mentioned about the student in an

incident that he was praying when he should have been learning. Yet this isn't

a good answer since Rabbi Yochanan disagrees in that very case and says, “If

only a person would pray all day”.

The Baal HaTanya

says in the latter days things have changed, and I thought this sounds

outrageous; however, when we reflect on it, I think we can see his point. For

the root of the Torah is the Name 45 and the root of the

mitzvot

is 52

and so perhaps after a certain point in time the flow of light shifted from

going down [the name 45] to going up [52], so that now prayer connects one to

the flow of light. As I always find that things the Baal HaTanya says that

sound the most outrageous usually have the most sense.

·

The idea

of Rabbi Nachman of life being like the form of the aleph means like the form

of a Clothoid

[13]

.

The highest level is an asymptote which can never be reached, for it is God

himself. But, by being included in God, one reaches it. However, this is only

on the level of the first infinity. In the Geometry where the asymptote is the

second infinity, one has to start the process all over again. This is the

reason why people’s lives are a series of ups and downs -- and the ups and

downs get more frequent as time goes by but less dramatically, since the radius

of curvature increases proportionally to how far you are from the origin [your

birth]. This also explains why in the explanation of the higher repentance,

Rabbi Nachman describes an integral, since in fact the x-coordinate of a person

progressing towards that point is

x=a



n

cosTd

This also

explains the reason, for the



/2 is the equation for uncertainty, which is the root of this universe,

for this comes from the asymptotes of the formula for the Clothoid [a(



/2)

1/2

,

a(



/2)

1/2

)

·

In the

Christian world there has been a great debate between the two poles -- of

individual spirituality versus that of the group, according to the level one

holds in the hierarchy and the need to receive ones holiness from the rabbi or

the priest etc.

Now Rabbi

Nachman combines both poles. For, to him, the importance of belief in wise men

is of utmost importance. Yet, he also stresses individual spirituality, and

says that each person has in him a level of the Messiah. But he combines these

ideas, for he says that one really has three centers of mass that he must revolve

around: that of himself, of his friend and of his teacher.
