
of existence], and further even in good or evil there is right and left. That

is, the evil of evil or the good of evil, i.e. that even an evil person won't

go to that degree of evil.

·

Concerning

the way of learning recommended by Rabbi Nachman — of just saying the words in

order, and having faith that one will eventually understand — it is interesting

to see the

Maharsha

on

Avoda Zara

19a, who says that the two ways

of learning of just saying the words, or being exact, and repeating the ideas

over and over until one gets it is a argument in the Gemara over there.

Then, the

Gemara says that the rabbis knew the statements about learning carefully but

didn't listen to it because they followed the advice of just saying the words.

To the Maharsha, Rav Nachman bar Issac learned in the quick way but still had

success in his learning. [The argument if Sinai is better or uprooter of

mountains would also seem to be relevant. The Gemara concludes that Sinai is

better.] <???> <What do you mean by uprooter of mountains or

sinai?>

·

There are

five books of Rabbi Nachman: three are his exact words, and two are the things

Rabbi Nathan remembered that he said and wrote down. There are no other

traditions from him contrary to what is commonly supposed.

For

instance, there is a commonly known saying which he said, that there would be

no other Rebbi after him. However, when a Rav of Breslov died in Safed years

ago, all the Breslovers made it a point to advertise throughout the Jewish

community in New York that the Rav of Breslov had died for the publicity they

would get from it. No Breslover then in Jerusalem, or New York, or Safed said

anything about this supposed tradition.

However,

when only a few years later when Rav Shick started printing books that had his

picture on them, and written underneath was, “The Leader of Breslov” [and Rav

Shick was already very unpopular with the Breslover community for years] all of

a sudden this tradition popped up.

Now when

did Rabbi Nachman say it? If before the guy from Safed died, why did nobody

remember it then? Then it must be that it was after that guy died. But Rabbi

Nachman himself passed away two hundred years ago. So it is obvious that Rabbi

Nachman never said such a thing — and this is just another example of a very

common phenomenon I have noticed in the Orthodox community, i.e., making up

history to suit their political and financial needs.
