
·

Though

Rabbi Nachman attacked the

Guide

to the

Perplexed, there are many

principles that he gets from there, like that “taking care of the body comes

before taking care of the soul,” (

Guide

III:27). Or the idea that

prophecy is an extension of the power of imagination [the

Guide

II:38],

the idea that prophecy is by an angel to all prophets except Moses [the

Guide

II:24].

·

Advice

from Rabbi Nachman has to be taken with a grain of salt, i.e., what he would

call Tzitzum. The mikvah may be able to sweeten judgements but what about the

guy that was killed in Israel going to the mikvah and the child that died after

his parent put him in the  freezing mikvah of the Ari. in Safed.Even if one has

had seed come out of him at night, Rabbi Nachman said it is nothing unless it

came also with sexual thoughts. The reason the mikvah no  longer works like it

did for the Baal Shem Tov is that for him it was a time for  private prayer.

Now that it is no longer private it is a waste of time unless in the case that

Rabbi Nachman specifically said it for.

All the

advice of Rabbi Nachman has to be taken in this way--think: “Will this action

increase my devakus in God ?” If the logical answer to that question is no then

even if Rabbi Nachman said it is a good thing to do, he meant it for a

different situation than the one that exists now for you. The only thing that

he said one must do regardless of whether it increases his personal devakus or

not is to be by him for every Rosh Hashanah

·

Rabbi

Nachman explains that in the higher Intelligence time goes slower and in that

all the days of one’s life are instantaneous. The reason for this is that from

the point of view of one who is moving at the speed of light all, events,

future and past, appear simultaneously. Thus, the way to get attached to God,

and included in that higher Intelligence, is by moving at the speed of light in

spiritual terms. Of course, that is impossible for matter: therefore, one has

to go into a closet and not be seen by himself or others, and then his wave

function can be manifested, and he can become attached to God by attaching

their thoughts to Him. However, since sin separates one from God as it says in

the verse, “your sins were dividing between you and your God”, one needs go to
