Time is

in Kabbalah a ‘perfect form’ and has 613 parts, and an inner essence, and an

outer essence. The faster one goes the closer he gets to the inner essence, and

thus time slows down. (This is what Rabbi Nachman calls “the time becomes

unified into one and the length becomes shorter — what Rabbi Nachman calls “The

Place” becomes unified into one. Here, Rabbi Nachman predicts the existence of

black-holes with a singularity inside).

This

means that time is like an electro-magnetic wave that flows through the time

field. So, one year is four spiritual waves, the Rosh Hashanah wave starting

and finishing on Rosh Hashanah. (But this is different in terms that its

highest point is on Shavuot and lowest on Tisha BeAv), and at right angles to

it is the month wave (starting in Nissan), and at a right angle to that is the

week wave and then there is the day wave, so the whole thing is one big shear

wave in 4 dimensions traveling through the time field like a gravitational wave

in the space time field. Rabbi Nachman says the month wave used to start on

Passover (i.e. like a cosine function where the origin is the highest point but

now he says it originates on Purim.

·

There are

infinite levels that the Lekutai Moharan works on. The Lekutai Moharan was

meant to be valid and consistent at every possible level as I heard once from

some university professor on the way to Rabbi Nachman for Rosh Hashanah. Before

that I had believed that every level in it was one specific level and my only

question was how to verify which level it was speaking about. Now I believe

that in each specific world the Lekutai Moharan has a specific level but it

applies to each world differently. I also think that the books of the Baal

HaTanya in general contain the hints necessary to decipher the intent of the

Lekutai Moharan in Emanation.

·

Rabbi

Nachman predicts the fact that in a large gravitational field, time slows down,

for by the Divine Presence where there is a large amount of energy he says the

time becomes unified into a singularity.

·

Rabbi

Nachman said even on the left side there is a right and a left. This means that

all spiritual systems are like a vertical totem pole with the wisdom on top but

what determines a person's spirituality isn't the vertical level but the

horizontal closeness to the vertical column (of the infinite light). For

instance, lets say a person is Jewish — that puts him on a high rung of the

ladder. But it doesn't have anything to do with whether he is good or evil.

Only the horizontal closeness to

[IMAGE: image052.gif]

determines that. [i.e., only

the x-coordinate determines good or evil. The y-coordinate determines the rung
