Chapter 7 – Eras of Man

“Not only the body, but also the soul whose habits, tempers,

opinions, desires, pleasures, fears never remain the same… and this is equally

true of knowledge… not only do the sciences in general spring up and decay… but

each of them individually experiences a like change.”

-Plato Symposium

·

MANKIND

PROGRESSED DOWNWARD THROUGH TIME. UNTIL JESUS WAS HIT AT THE ORIGIN. Then we

came out to the other side continuing in the same direction but now progressing

towards the light instead of away.

·

“At the

time of dusk there will be light.” The Zohar explained that this refers to the

272 years before the 6th millennium of the Hebrew calendar which comes out to

be the year 1968.

·

During

the 6th 1000-year period there was a flow on the level of Foundation which is

from 1240 until 2240. (3760 B.C. is the beginning of the 1st thousand.) This

would explain the flow of wisdom since then. And the Rambam's saying in the

letter to Yemen that prophesy would start then.

·

This is leading

up to the 7th thousand-year

period starting 2240. This is similar to the 1

st

thousand were to

draw from the previous “Sabbath” on thousand years while our period is to draw

from the coming thousand-year period.

•

Every

hundred years is a blessing in a different field as a part of the process of

the redemption of mankind.

●

1400-1500 was art.

●

From 1500 to 1600 was the Reformation.

●

From 1600 to 1700 was Mathematics Philosophy.

●

From 1700 - 1800 was Music.

●

From 1850 - 1950 was invention.

●

1900 - 2000 was Physics.

[an

art-religion-science -philosophy cycle.]

This doesn't mean that at the end of the period the blessing has

to stop. It can continue but not in the same way as a massive overflowing. This

refers to the circular

sephirot

of the non-Jews whose spiritual

redemption started from Jesus. But the Jewish hundred-year periods start on the

forty-year mark.

Thus:

·

1240-1340 - Royalty - [the writings of Abulafia and the other

Kabbalists].

·

1340-1440 - Foundation.

·

1440-1540 - Splendor - which is a time of judgement and thus was

the expulsion from Spain.

·

1540-1640 – Victory – Kabbalah - Rabbi Issac Ashkenazi and Spinoza

who proved God and discovered the logical proofs of the system of the Torah.

(However, since he was excommunicated, it hasn't been used as such).

·

1640-1740 Torah-Beauty - The Ramchal, the Gra and the Baal Shem

Tov, Rabbi Yaakov Abuchatzera and Rabbi Shalom Sharabi - all the sages of Torah

that all Torah (learning and keeping) until today is based on.

·

1740-1840 – Judgement - the fall of the Jewish people away from

the Torah yet still there was the counter force of Rabbi Nachman and the other

great sages that continued the different movements mentioned above.

·

1840-1940 – Kindness - return to Israel (Royalty) and emigration

to America (Foundation).

·

1940-2040 - Understanding - This implies the awakening of

judgements (the Holocaust), freedom [i.e., the 1960s], and

Understanding

itself.

·

2040-3040 - Wisdom.

·

3040-4040 - Crown. [The implication of all this is that World War

III should start around 2010 which is Understanding of Understanding.]

·

·

In the

1960's there existed the wisdom to understand that the establishment needed to

be either reformed or thrown out (that's the disagreement between “The Greening

of America” and Ayn Rand. But there was also in the air the rebellion against

parents. This danger doesn't exist now because in the air there is all the talk

about strengthening the family. But this talk didn't exist then. The children

of today's children will have the same test since time is circular. How can we

make sure the coming 1960s will not decay into the yuppie 1970's? and not be a

rebellion against all moral values, rather than just against false ones. The

answer is the basis (religion) must be strong- but not fanatical; just solid.

We need a religious and philosophic basis for the world. That is knowledge of the

Bible and the Talmud and the great philosophers, and religious giants of

history like Buddha, the Gita, Jesus, Rabbi Nachman, etc. We need to bring the

Bible back to the world.

·

The

problem with the hippies was that they needed to provide a viable alternative

to the establishment, which really doesn't exist. Their economic ideal of

communism has shown itself to be a non-workable option. Their major benefit was

to shake things up so that reform within the system could take place, which

wouldn't have happened without them. They made the reduction of the cold war to

be the goal. Although President Reagan accomplished it in a way they would not

have agreed with; but at least it stopped. Without that the world would at some

point been destroyed a couple times over. They accomplished reform in education

so that the education of the 60s was individually oriented.

·

At the

time of the destruction of the first Temple, the secrets of the Torah went into

exile and were scattered all over the world. That is why Pythagoras, Buddha,

Plato, Socrates and so many other spiritual and intellectual giants appeared on

the scene at that point.

·

There

have to be two protagonists in every generation, each correct and true - but

from the opposing worlds of Chaos and Correction, and therefore in conflict

with each other:

●

Einstein and Heisenberg

●

The Baal Shem Tov and the Gra

●

Dr. Spock and Dr Vincent Peal (The Power of positive Thinking),

Plato and Aristotle, Hillel and Shamai. But this is only after the house of

King David was split for before that there was power in the righteous[tikun the

sephirot of correction] to contain the two opposites [i.e., the light of

correction and of chaos, freedom].

·

The

Talmud says that in the year 6000 (2240 in the English calendar) God will

destroy the world, people will fly on wings 1000 years and then in the year

7000 there will be the revival of the dead and a renewal of this world. Perhaps

the wings the Talmud refers to are spacecraft? [Is it possible we will live on

other planets? I have heard that perhaps travel faster than light is possible

if done like the traveling of energy in a rope that isn’t shaken up and down so

that the energy travels in waves but rather pulled so that the energy travels

in a faster way.]

·

People

haven't traveled back to us in time yet because to the

Shemita

opinion

time comes in layers and the future layers haven't come yet into existence (the

future doesn't yet exist.)

·

Mankind

goes through harmonic motion (something like

[IMAGE: image002.gif]

). Similarly,

each

nation and individual. That is why this century

has had

accelerated harmonic motion with the progress of democracy and freedom; yet

also world wars and depressions. I would suggest that A isn't a constant but

gets smaller with time, so the harmonic motion gets more accentuated.

I don't

think accepting Jesus would have saved the Jewish nation at the second Temple

period because if so, it should have done so for the Roman empire 300 years

later. Yet we see the Roman Empire disintegrated into nothing starting

immediately after they accepted Jesus. Thus, it seems to me that the events

surrounding Jesus were as planned. According to the translation of Wise and

Eisen that is in fact exactly what the prophet Isaiah if fact predicted. But it

is likely that the destruction would have taken a less violent turn - as with

the Romans the destruction of the nation meant dissolving the political unity,

not the mass destruction of the people as it did for the Jewish people at the

time of the destruction of the Temple.

·

If we go

by Hegel’s idea of religion and philosophy, I think we should be entering on a

new age of religion that will be an improvement from the last ages for this coming

one will include each religion retaining its identity yet integrating the good

aspects of others.

·

Abraham

gave to his seven children from the later wives “presents” and sent them to the

East. I think this is the

Vedic

knowledge.

The

Indus-Saraswati civilization had undergone decay from natural disasters. The

arrival of the Vedic people around 1700-1500 BC right after the life of Abraham

[which was at the beginning of the second millennium BC] was a rejuvenation —

for they brought with them the teachings of Abraham.

This

explains to me the fact of their strong monotheistic traditions though they

still have idolatry and other dualistic traditions. I think this may explain

from where they got the idea of meditation which I think is a well-established

principle in all religious thought, yet clearly the East got it much before the

West.

If it

wasn't from Abraham, then clearly it must have been from some spiritual giant.

Even

Judaism today doesn't compare with it, for Judaism has become an anti­spiritual

religion by its strictest adherents and obviously it must at least be able to

lend itself to an anti-spiritual interpretation. While the

Vedas

are the

most spiritual books that exist in terms of their search for enlightenment and

not being able to take anything less as a substitute, even prayer, good deeds,

study or even meditation. The Vedas can lend themselves to idolatry but

certainly not to anti­spirituality.

·

One's

place in the world is largely determined by the place one has in the large

events of each of the ten sephirot. For, like in Math there is a constant

progression upward and it is the job of the mathematician to add more bricks to

the building of knowledge, not just to understand it, thus it is with all the

ten sephirot. Thus

Torah

[Beauty]

Music

[Judgment]

Mathematics

Philosophy

Politics

Advanced

Math

Democracy

Kabbalah

Romantic

Calculus

Rational

The

State

Gemarah

Classical

Trigonometry

Aristotle

Feudalism

Mishna

Renaissance

Algebra

Plato

Empire

Bible

Medieval

Geometry

Socrates

Monarchy

There are

in each group [and there are many more groups] periods of blackholes when no

progress is made. Sometimes progress is horizontal and sometimes it is vertical.

Horizontal progress is also important since it adds to the base.

