
1960's there existed the wisdom to understand that the establishment needed to

be either reformed or thrown out (that's the disagreement between “The Greening

of America” and Ayn Rand. But there was also in the air the rebellion against

parents. This danger doesn't exist now because in the air there is all the talk

about strengthening the family. But this talk didn't exist then. The children

of today's children will have the same test since time is circular. How can we

make sure the coming 1960s will not decay into the yuppie 1970's? and not be a

rebellion against all moral values, rather than just against false ones. The

answer is the basis (religion) must be strong- but not fanatical; just solid.

We need a religious and philosophic basis for the world. That is knowledge of the

Bible and the Talmud and the great philosophers, and religious giants of

history like Buddha, the Gita, Jesus, Rabbi Nachman, etc. We need to bring the

Bible back to the world.

·

The

problem with the hippies was that they needed to provide a viable alternative

to the establishment, which really doesn't exist. Their economic ideal of

communism has shown itself to be a non-workable option. Their major benefit was

to shake things up so that reform within the system could take place, which

wouldn't have happened without them. They made the reduction of the cold war to

be the goal. Although President Reagan accomplished it in a way they would not

have agreed with; but at least it stopped. Without that the world would at some

point been destroyed a couple times over. They accomplished reform in education

so that the education of the 60s was individually oriented.

·

At the

time of the destruction of the first Temple, the secrets of the Torah went into

exile and were scattered all over the world. That is why Pythagoras, Buddha,

Plato, Socrates and so many other spiritual and intellectual giants appeared on

the scene at that point.

·

There

have to be two protagonists in every generation, each correct and true - but

from the opposing worlds of Chaos and Correction, and therefore in conflict

with each other:

●

Einstein and Heisenberg

●

The Baal Shem Tov and the Gra

●

Dr. Spock and Dr Vincent Peal (The Power of positive Thinking),

Plato and Aristotle, Hillel and Shamai. But this is only after the house of

King David was split for before that there was power in the righteous[tikun the

sephirot of correction] to contain the two opposites [i.e., the light of

correction and of chaos, freedom].

