
·

A good

way of really telling who is a saint is the test of time. For instance, the

writings of Moses are doing pretty good still after 3000 years. So are the

books of other saints. Modern-day so-called rabbis will be lucky if they are

remembered 20 years after they have passed except as some foot note in a

history book.

·

It's

impossible to know the answer to the criticism on any saint because of the

uncertainty principle -- the better you know the answer the less you are aware

of his being a saint. And the greater the saint is the less we can know the

answers to the questions on him.

·

The thing

that made Rabbi Israel Abuchatzera and all the great saints, wasn't so much

their prayer, fasting or learning, rather it was their tremendous desire to

help people. When that desire exists in one, God gives him the ability to help

people far beyond the rules of nature. The tools to help people are simple acts

of kindness, but for people like Rabbi Israel Abuchatzara it was possible to go

into the spiritual roots of the problem in the higher worlds and correct the

problem's there, and that would trickle down to this world where the problem would

disappear.

Yet even

a regular person can do that to some degree by prayer:

●

By going to the shrine of Rabbi Nachman for Rosh Hashanah; by

learning Kabbalah and science; by doing the unifications of Rabbi Luria

Ashkenazi

●

By prayer with the intentions of the Rashash

●

By doing the nullifying of judgments by the shrines of the saints

in Israel

●

By reading the whole Torah every verse forward and backwards and

then saying the Divine Names that come with the verse. (The simplest way is

saying the first letter of every word with the vowel under it as it is written

in the Torah, then the middle letters with the vowel which is specifically for

that letter, and then the last letter in the same way. (This method is good to

use with the

Lekutei Moharan

which also has the strength to nullify

judgments.

●

The most important thing to do is to bring loved ones together.
