
For in the next world loved ones are together. However, in this world usually

true mates are separated by time and place and even if they come together its

only for a brief time.

·

When one

denies a righteous person completely, he cuts off the flow of spiritual energy

which might have reached him. So those who may not know Jesus but don't deny

him may still receive the flow of the light of kindness from him.

·

When a

Tzadik is born there is born his evil side in another person. That's why he has

to pray for that person because it's really a part of himself, just he was

lucky that it was born elsewhere.

·

The way

God runs things changes so what one saint does to get some spiritual level will

not work nowadays unless that same spiritual flow is upon him. But private

prayer still works since it's the light of the crown which is the type of

Divine flow coming into the world. Learning Kabbalah is just on the level of

wisdom, so it doesn't work like it used to.

·

To reveal

the Divine traits, one needs an empty space. America, the land of freedom, is

between the East and West. And that's why America has grown, since it’s a land

of freedom and good deeds can only grow in a free environment. Chaos has its

own beautiful patterns and since in America there is some degree of freedom of

thought, ideas are able to flow around and sometimes to converge into a great

vortex, like the great red spot that is on Jupiter.

·

The

disagreement between the Talmud and Jesus is on the level of the argument

between the righteous. Jesus or the Talmud can't bring blessing unless they are

hidden by the argument on them.

·

Most

great saints don't have the right ideas -- just great hearts. Most great

geniuses don't have great hearts, just great heads. They have a common thread

and share many of the same characteristics but if we are to live according to

God's will, we can't listen to necessarily any one saint or any one genius if

we are to find a correct path in which God is accessible to common people. It

is necessary to listen to the wise and the saints of all ages especially those

that have withstood the test of time and to try to gain an idea of how their

teachings apply to us today (e.g., I don't think Mother Teresa necessarily had

a great head, but rather a great heart. She was a devout Catholic. Should we

all then become Catholics? I don't think so, and I don't think we'll all be

dammed if we don't, though that belief is part of the Catholic faith).
