Chapter 7 – Saints

·

The

reason one needs to be connected to a saint is that even with all the

preparation of virtue and study unless God shines his light on one then he

simply isn't connected with God [even though God is still connected with him by

the contracting light. And without that light one's spiritual life is simply

self-delusion. There is no such thing as spirituality except for that light.

[However, there are different levels of it so on the level of royalty or the

contraction God is still looking at one and he still must be careful in what he

says thinks and does. At any rate, because of this one must be connected with a

saint that is connected to the light. This is in fact one of the 613

commandments as it says in the Torah to be attached to God and the Sages ask

how is it possible to be attached to God? Isn't he a burning Fire? And they

answer to be attached to students of the wise men, i.e., do business with them

and to give to one of them your daughter.

However,

it is hard to know who is a saint. Rabbi Yaakov Abuchatzara gave the criteria

[in Maaglai Tzedek]. If you see two people serving God; one can do miracles and

the other can't, know that the one who can, is a greater saint that the other.

We see this in the Bible, for Eliyahu said to the head of the troop “If I am a

man of God let fire come down from Heaven...” Thus, we see that the proof of

his being a man of God was his ability to do a miracle. HE could have done the

miracle without saying “If I am a man of God”, but he added those words to

teach us this lesson. Also, the Bible teaches us how to discover if someone is

a true or false prophet. If they say any good thing will come to pass, and it

doesn't, or if he says to serve false gods or to stop keeping the commandments

then he is a false prophet.

This may

seem to contradict what I have said elsewhere about the importance of listening

to one's family and friends, not to rabbis. However, the answer to this is as

follows.

At any

there is a level of saint that applies to each individual in a spiritual way,

that is his parents and friends for though they may not be saints in terms of

the rest of the world they are in general   the level of “saint” in relation to

each individual. The test is if they have actually helped the individual in

some tangible physical way. If not, then they are just a lot of hot air. For

what they do for is on the level of a miracle, and by their love for you they

can have “Small Prophecy” to know the outcome of a course of action. This is

like what the Sages say that in naming ones child one has small prophecy.

Honor of

ones parents is in the Ten Commandments and honoring a rabbi is not even

mentioned in the Bible. Thus, even though the Sages tell us the importance of

honoring a true saint or sage this prescription has to be taken with a grain of

salt and in such a way that wouldn't contradict the open command of the Torah.
