
At first

non-Jews had a soul from the outside of the

klipah

even their good

inclination is from the klipah. But when they began to believe the one God they

drew a higher holiness on themselves from their higher root. This applies to

non-Jewish nations as a whole also, for every nation is like a whole person

with some people representing the head and some the hands and others the heart

and others the soul.

·

The

reason God brought Bach, Beethoven, and Mozart was to create music that would

tie ones soul to the higher

sephirah

(divine trait). That is Bach -

glory, Mozart - kindness, Beethoven - Judgment, Handel - Royalty.

Incidentally,

Beethoven did intend his music to be specifically ethnic which for Germany and

Austria is the trait of judgment and it is only softened by the belief in Jesus

but after they threw out Jesus in the 1860s the basic ethnic philosophy of

Germany took it's place, i.e., war and conquest.

·

The

reason a non-Jew is not allowed to keep the Sabbath is that he is not effected

by the Shabbos-field energy. Jews are affected only by the straight sephirot

energy field, and non-Jews are affected only by the circular sephirot field.

Each one of the 10 sephirot has its own energy field. There are certain sephirot

that draw wisdom or children etc. And there are combinations of the fields of

the sephirot that draw different combinations of blessings.

A field

is usually created or drawn by what one occupies himself with. So if one for

instance learns math he will usually draw upon himself the math field energy.

Kindness draws a kindness field. Learning Gemarah brings its particular field

energy. Evil has its energy also. A place or country has its energy. Every day

has its own energy. The reason to be by Rabbi Nachman on Rosh Hashanah is there

is a certain energy field around a tzadik and every special day has it's own

energy field. So on Rosh Hashanah when the two combine and there is created a

electromagnetic oscillation by the presence of the chasidim, and a spiritual

electro-magnetic wave is created.

Many

times one can't help what type of field is drawn upon him or how he will be

affected by it. He can just try his best to do what is right. But general

principles can fail in specific situations and therefore God has given us a

certain intuition in the heart to be able to detect energy fields not seen by

the eye or detected by the mind.

