
Israel? Is now Mother Theresa and Princess Diana Jewish because they engaged in

deeds of loving kindness - [The other mitzvot, they were not obligated in since

Rashi says we should not do all the 613 any more since it would lead to no one

meriting to the next world.] Clearly, other first authorities besides the Rambam

would not hold like this since they held that the Jewish and nonJewish soul are

different.Now there is a debate as to where the Rambam lived in a spiritual

sence.Some hold in Jerusalem and others hold in Athens.I think his feet where

in Jerusalem but his head was in Athens,ie. he obviously had a vision as to

what determined a persons Jewishness was how attached to God he is.But to get

from the halacha to there ,i don't think he knew, but rather he felt

intuitively was correct. And this may apply in general for he certainly wanted

to bridge between reason and the Law, but I don't think he really knew exactly

how.

I think

the Kabbalah provides the answer to all these questions. For clearly the

mitzvot contain only the holiness of the vessels, not of the inner light which

depends on many factors, e.g., if God wants to put his light into it for that

person at that time. In a similar manner Jewish people have only the holiness

of the body, not of the spirit unless any particular persons happens to merit

to it. Now the Rambam holds that the holiness of the spirit comes from faith in

the 13 principles and so in his opinion anyone Jewish or otherwise believing in

these principles is spiritually Jewish.

·

Jesus had

the vessel of

tikun

and the light of love from

tohu

, so non-Jews

feel more affinity towards him than Jews since he contains the light of their

higher root.

The root

of the Jewish people is in the

sepherah

of Royalty which is the daughter

of Wisdom so they are usually more into good ideas (or bad ones when they fall

from their root). The root of Jesus is in the sepherah of Foundation which is

filled with the light of kindness so Christians are more into good deeds (or

bad ones when they fall from their root.) The amount of hospitals and general

help of the Catholic church for mankind for the last 2000 years is nothing less

than awesome. Similarly the amount of study and books of the Jewish people for

their history is also awesome.

·

Tana

DeBay Eliyahu, “whether a man or a woman, a slave or a maidservant, a Jew or an

idol -worshipper, the Holy Spirit rests on a person according to their deeds.”
