
Adam Kadmon, the circular sephirot are only in the three names Ehyeh in the

dots of the 63, or the forehead, which is anyway the root of Israel and not

relevant to this discussion.

According

to this idea, the explanation of the fact the three names Ehyeh take the 22

letters and make vessels from them would refer to the letters of the other

languages and this fits with the idea of the Baal Hatanya’s that the letters of

other languages also have holiness.

Now a

hint to the Gra is the fact that the Torah blesses the children of Abraham and

Issac to be like the stars of the heavens but the children of Yaakov like the

dust of the Earth. Now even though the blessing for Abraham of being like the

stars certainly goes for the Jewish people as we see in exodus 32:13, still

that blessing clearly goes on all the other children of Abraham and Issac,

[i.e., the Christian and Muslim people].

·

Rabbi

Issac Luria said the Jewish people have their root in the drops of semen that

Adam spilled during those 130 years after the sin and were born again as people

and sinned because of the rust still attached to them and had to go through the

purification process of the flood, the dispersion, and the Egyptian exile. This

may sound pretty bad; however, the root of Israel in the Higher worlds is from

Wisdom, but since they were supposed to be the children of Adam they came out

with his seed. Rabbi Nachman says the descendants of Moses have even a higher

root than that. At any rate, the root of the Jewish people is from the worlds

of correction but have had to go through a difficult purification process.

·

Rabbenu

HaKadosh said to Antonious that the promise to destroy Esau only refers to

those that hold onto the deeds of Esau. The Gemara also says that any who do

not believe in idolatry is called Jewish. In the Rambam’s enumeration of the 13

principles, we find that he says that anyone who believes in these principles

comes into the category of “Israel” even if they do as many evil deeds as they

possibly can - and anyone who does not believe in them is not Jewish. Thus, I

find in the Gemara and the Rambam the idea that whether one is considered

Jewish is not necessarily dependent on conversion or if one's mother was

Jewish, but rather it depends on one's principles and deeds. It is possible to

ignore the Gemara since it can be explained as just a

drasha

(not

halacha) but the Rambam who draws on these Gemaras clearly means his statement

to be taken as halacha...

What if

we take the drashot of the gedolai hachasidut that clearly held that the desire

for money is in the halachic category of idolatry to its natural conclusion?

Does this exclude Jewish people with the desire for money from the category of
