Chapter 5 - Friendship

“Men of

notorious depravity or obvious deceit yield nothing in nastiness to

hypocritical pseudo-philosophers and treacherous friends.” —Tacitus,

The

Annals of Imperial Rome

·

People

you think are your friends never are, and those who you think aren't usually. A

true friend is someone who will help you when you are down and out, and that's

impossible to know until it happens.

·

In a

far-off Arabic land, a long time ago there was a Jew who had a son who was

neglecting the daily prayers and spending every evening at a different friend’s

house partying. The father asked his son, “How many friend do you have?” “About

50 or 60”, he answered. The father said, “that is amazing for I am an old man

and after so many years all I have is one friend and one half-friend. How is it

possible that you have fifty or sixty already and you are just a young man?”.

“Let's try a test. I'll spread some ketchup on you and give you a long knife

and go to each of your friend house saying you were attacked, and you fought

off your attacker and grabbed the knife from him and killed him and now you

need to be hidden from the police.”

In the

early evening he went to the first house, the friend opened the door, he told

his story and the “friend” yelled “Get out of here, demon” and slammed the door

on his face. The second house barely opened the door and immediately slammed it

shut after seeing him. And thus, the evening went. From house to house he went

until 11:00 pm when he returned home. No one had helped. The father said “Now

let's try a different experiment. Let's send you to my half friend who barely

knows you”.

As soon

as the half friend saw him covered with blood, he immediately grabbed him

inside and without waiting to hear what he had to say, he immediately stripped

off the clothes burned them, threw him in the bathtub, got rid of the knife,

and locked the front door and pocketed the key. The son then tried to explain

that now that he was cleaned up, he could go home, but the half friend said

“you aren't going anywhere tonight”. And so, the son was stuck there until the

morning. Then the “half-friend” took him by stealth to the fathers home and the

father explained what had really happened. The son knew then what a real friend

is.

·

In an

ideal world we would all be true friends like this (or like Jack and Rose, “If

you jump, I jump” -

Titanic, the movie

), however we don't live in that

ideal world. But we still should try to be the best friend we can, and value

our half-or quarter friends as long as that small percentage of friends in them

is real.

·

Someone

who has done you one favor is much more likely to do a you another than someone

you have done a favor for, since its already revealed they have the level of

giving flow in relation to your level. (That is in that subject they occupy a

higher plane and water flows from up to down).

One who

has reneged on a promise once will definitely do it again. One who has let you

down and shown him or herself to be untrustworthy once will do the same again

if given the chance.

