Chapter 10 – Gemarah – The

Babylonian and Jerusalem

Talmud’s

·

There are

different ways to understand the Talmud. There is the looking-to-be strict way

and there is the looking-to-be lenient way. Both are valid (i.e., some people

learn to find ways of being stricter and some to be less strict — and both are

valid because as the Talmud says, “God said to do, so no matter how we do it,

it’s ok with Him.” — as long as one is trying to do the right thing.

·

I would

like to add that actually there are millions of valid ways to learn the Talmud.

To give some examples there is the going deeper and deeper into its infinite

logic, and there is doing the same with Rashi and Tosphot. But there is also

going into the length and breath as the commentaries tend to do. Then there is

the Kabbalistic way and the Halachic way. The halachic way is divided between

the Rambam who didn't assume all the Talmud has to have one parallel line of

thought and the other authorities who held that it did. (They held one place

can't disagree with another based on the “

stame de gemara

” — but the

Rambam didn't agree, because that is for the original compilation of Rav

Nachman Bar Issac, not the final version of Rav Ashi and Ravina who collected

all the pieces). There is also the way of Reb Chaim to find the deeper

principles. I had my own way for a while to find all the conflicting principles

in every subject and reduce them down to one final principle, but I never

finished it.

·

My model

of the Gemarah is not open from the outside (like the non-religious), but open

from the inside, — i.e., to go into the deeper dimensions. So instead of the

flat way, I want to open up the 4th dimension of the Talmud so that everything

it says should be invariant only if you look at it from the spiritual way, not

the flat way.

·

The Oral

Law was written down during the second Temple period in documents of the

Scribes (professional rabbis), the ultra-orthodox (the Prushim) and the

Essenes. After the destruction of the Temple, the long arduous process of

collecting, sorting out and arranging the discussions and decisions in the

countless documents and oral traditions before the Yeshivot in Babylon and

Israel began. The Talmud is a work of the genius of many generations after the

destruction, compiling and evaluating the laws handed down by those groups.

Therefore,

the Talmud itself doesn't present a question on Jesus since it was meant to

collect the traditions at the time of its writing and not as Divine knowledge.

It is a work of genius, but it is still influenced by the time period it was

created which was extremely isolationist in its point of view because of the

Bar Kochba incident. The purpose in the stories is, as all the history written

at that time, meant to instruct values and morals, not as historical facts.

·

The Oral

Law Torah existed as documents that the Pharisees, Scribes, and Essences had in

written form [as seen in the tractates of the scribes and in the Dead Sea

scrolls, which represent a body of writings from all the Jewish groups that

lived then including the Jews that believed in Jesus. However, those writings

have been suppressed by the Catholic Church since they contradict their ideas

which are based on Paul].

·

The

Rambam held openly that the only part of the Talmud that is actually a direct

tradition from Mount Sinai are the parts where the Gemarah says or assumes that

something is Biblical law. The Kabbalah says the Gemarah is from Royalty of

Emanation which means it came from a flow of wisdom from that sepherah like

Newton received a flow of wisdom from the realm of Math and Physics -- That

doesn't imply infallibility. History bears this out for we find many sources of

the Braitot are actually from the Essenes who had a totally different world

view from the Pharisees (the orthodox at time of the second Temple) and later

from the Talmud itself. The dead sea scrolls clearly bear out the fact that the

Gemarah is exactly what it claims to be, a compilation and evaluation of the

millions of Braitot floating around during the Second Temple period. Evaluating

the Talmud from the historical context it came in tends to take out its

mythical dimensions but if done with care and respect it shows its true

greatness.

·

There is

no question that you can take any statement of the Talmud or it's commentators

and argue it pro and con ad infinitum. The question is as to the fruitfulness

of this. The point is, no matter how far you go its only horizontal depth.

·

The

formulas of halacha result in an infinity of variations because of the slight

variations of the parameters of each person's individual soul and world-line.

When we don't know how to keep the commandments we are to go to the Jewish

Sages (Deuteronomy 17:8-13); and that is the Talmud, which is the generality of

the Oral law. However, the laws which they made to guard Biblical laws because

of a specific situation which existed at that time or place, those laws don't

apply in the opinion of the Rashbam and Raavad — when the reason for the law

disappears so does the law. To the Rosh even, if the reason applies, if it's

not in the same place where the law was originally made it doesn't apply. (See

the beginning of the halachot of non-Jewish wine in the Shach and Taz. See the

Rambam on putting ornaments on the streets of Jerusalem on the festival after

the destruction of the Temple. — and the Raavad there, and the Rosh at the

beginning of

Masechet Avoda Zarah

.) [The importance of not adding on any

restrictions is to keep the patterns of chaos of each person's soul which comes

from the circular sephirot and

provides

the energy

of serving God.]

Without

the ideas of the science of Chaos, it is hard to understand why the Torah

commands us not to add to the commandments.

·

The laws

of the written Torah are invariant. But the Jewish people are in an inertial

frame of reference as compared to Mount Sinai, so all explanations which are

direct traditions from Sinai always apply to them but not to non-Jews who are

in an accelerating frame revolving around the empty space. Different

formulations apply to them. Now even in the written Torah many laws are given

that apply only in Israel like a gas that obeys the gas laws when it is in a

state of equilibrium. When not in that state the only way to describe [until

now] is by statistical methods. That is why since the  the laws of the Torah

are statistically valid, but in cases keeping the law would invalidate its

purpose to Rabbi Shimon, the law doesn't apply. Perhaps Solomon’s mistake was

that there was a state of equilibrium in his days.

·

Many of

the laws of the Torah are based on probability, e.g., the majority of judges in

civil cases, and majority opinion in religious cases. It's OK if the Torah has

statistical laws because probability is part of the fabric of the spiritual and

physical universe. Before the case comes to court it's a wave pattern where all

the facts co-exist in mathematical wave form. But once it's in court the facts

are observed and reduced to particle form. [The majority of Rabbi Nachman's

advice is in fact statistical, not absolute. He simply describes the forces at

work in each mitzvah but the actual effects in each person's life will be based

on many factors. Like wearing

tzitzis

saving one from bad advice. It can

cause one to get bad advice also by getting involved with religious hypocrites.

However, Rabbi Nachman is referring to some degree of a spiritual effect that

the

tzitzis

do have.]

·

Not every

Kal Vechomer

(a conclusion from a minority) is a law to Moses on Mount

Sinai, but it is from heaven as is everything which comes from the 13 ways to

explain the Torah, (as the Rambam says in Moreh Nevuchim), for there are many

places in the Talmud where how to apply any one of the 13-principles is a

subject of debate (i.e. if you can prove a law from one of the 13 principles

then it is Biblical).

·

The

Gemarah in Sanhedrin (99a) says, “Even if one says the whole Torah is from

Heaven except for one verse that God didn't say rather Moses said it himself is

in the category of “he has despised the word of the Lord”, and even if he says

the whole Torah is from heaven except for some derivation or some a conclusion

a minority or some derivation from similar expressions is in the category of

“he has despised the Word of the Lord”. If this would mean every time a

derivation is said in the Gemarah that it was said to Moses at Mount Sinai then

all the Talmudic sages would be in that category, for the Talmud is full of

arguments on the application of the 13 principles. Rather this means that

anything proven by the 13 principles is from heaven, not that it's a tradition

from Moses on Mount Sinai. [On Biblical verses the Gemarah says God said them

to Moses, but on derivations it says they are from heaven.] (Also, the laws

brought back by the derivations, not the recollections of Yonasan Ben Kenaz

would have been rabbinical, not biblical.) Rashi is clear in

Brachot 5b

that the

mishna

was not given on Mount Sinai, rather that Israel should

learn the teachings of the law as they were handed down. This is clear in many

Rashis

and

Rambams

throughout Shas.

·

There was

disagreement between the

halachic

authorities and the kabbalists that

was very strong in the Middle Ages. This continues in every generation for the

rabbis continue to disagree with the cabalists of their generation while only

agreeing with the ones that have gone, like the war the rabbis made against

Rabbi Chayim Lutzato and against the Baal Shem Tov and Rabbi Nachman and Rabbi

Abulafia. This was a continuation of the disagreements in philosophy between

the ultra-orthodox Pharisees and the esoteric Essences. The root of this starts

from Joseph (who was on the level of the inner truth) and his brothers. The

outer truth is the halacha.

The inner truth is the Kabbalah

. Only

afterwards the rabbis incorporated the Braitot of the Essences in the Mishna

and Talmud and accepted all the later Kabbalists while finding new ones to make

war on.

·

Every

mitzvah has a mathematical function determining how much Divine light it draws.

And that differs according to the parameters of the persons soul (vessel). So,

it is conceivable for a

mitzvah

to contain no light unless the basic

initial conditions are met, like having good character traits.

·

Torah is

only a reflection of the higher spiritual reality of Wisdom as the Zohar says,

“Torah is the fallen leaves of Wisdom.” Wisdom in turn is only a reflection of

the true spiritual reality of the Crown. And all this applies on each level of

the ten sephirot. For instance, the Spiritual reality of Formation is reflected

in the Mishna but the higher reality there is in the

Sefer Haichalot

(if

you have the right version of that book). The light there is even a higher

level but still isn't to be compared to the vessels of Creation, which is

Gemarah (which explains the great light that many feel when they learn

Gemarah…)

·

The idea

of tolerance is contained in the Torah in the way of a hint for there is an

argument about the application of many laws of the Torah in many different

situations. The traditional way of looking at this is deterministic, i.e., that

rabbis disagree about it until it is brought to the Sanhedrin for a vote to

decide the absolute truth. This implies the laws are deterministic but not the

application. It is possible that the idea of the Sanhedrin itself is

statistical and not deterministic since we find that the Torah itself says if

an individual knows that the Sanhedrin has made a mistake, he is not allowed to

follow it. Even though the aspect of the Torah of “forbidden, permitted,

unclean, clean, innocent, guilty” was given from the aspect of the Tree of

Knowledge of Good and Evil, it has an aspect of holiness that will be included

in holiness in the future. Perhaps from this we can derive tolerance as a

principle that exists in that No Man's Land between the opinions that permit

and those that forbid.

·

The sages

of the Talmud say that the evil inclination leaves the rest of the world and

rests only on Israel. Then it leaves Israel and rests only on the Torah

scholars. That is the imp of the perverse that doesn't care if something is

pleasurable or not. All that matters is that it should be against the Torah.

It's the evil angel that wrestled with Jacob that appeared to him as a Torah

sage because that particular evil angel knows the law very well and put

pleasure into things that would have no physical or emotional satisfaction

except for the fact that this imp knows it is forbidden

.

·

The oral

law is like a brick of gold that stretches from Moses until the center of the

empty space [vertically]. [Prayer is going back up]. The Oral Law as contained

in the Talmud is only one small horizontal slice. Since the Talmud stretches

vertically this would apply also to the written law or prophecy and Kabbalah

etc. Thus, we find a continuation after the Talmud of the light of the Talmud

in the

Geonim

and later authorities.

Chapter 11 – On Science

“Investigation

of the wisdom of the Creator that is seen from the creations is the closest

path to clarity of knowledge of His existence.” —

Chovot Halevavot

,

Section 2, Introduction

“Since

the creation of the world, God's invisible qualities - his eternal power and

Divine nature -- have been clearly seen, being understood from what has been

made” — Romans 1:20.

This is

the line that prompted Michal Faraday to try to understand electricity, and

thus the connection between electricity and magnetism which is the source for

modern electricity was discovered. “Know that proportional to one's knowledge

of the Torah and the nature of the world, so the world is handed over to him

and subjugated under him.”

-Sefer HaMidot, Daat vol.2, Num 2.

·

In the

first four chapters of Mishnah Torah the Rambam gives a brief account of the

Kabbalah of the Torah and the science that was known in his days, and finishes

by saying, “The ideas of these last four chapters are what the first

authorities call the ‘Pardes’” Then in Chapter 1  (Laws of Torah Study,

Halachah 11-12), he writes “One must divide the time of his study, a third in

the written Torah, a third in the oral Torah and a third in understanding one

thing from another… which is called Gemarah… The things called the “Pardes”

(the fruit tree garden) is in the category of the Gemarah.” The Rambam thus

openly says that learning science is in the category of the commandment to

learn Torah and also on a higher level of Torah than the Talmud and legal authorities.

·

To the

Rambam in the Guide [III:51] the division of people is (from highest to

lowest):

a.

The prophets (the Crown).

b.

The philosophers (Wisdom) [of the schools of

Aristotle and Plato, not the rival schools of Greek thought of Epicurus or the several

other types that the Sages and the Rambam didn't go for].

c.

The scientists (Understanding) (Jewish or

not).

d.

Those who keep the commandments and know the

Talmud. (Knowledge-Glory with Royalty).

e.

Those who keep the commandments (Royalty).

f.

Those that don't keep the commandments.

The

Rambam does stipulate that all should be facing towards the King [the

Intellect-God]

-

otherwise they are evil.

Yet, this

depends also on why they are turning from the King; if for pleasure then they

are from the

Klipa

of

Noga

, if for sin they are from the three

totally evil

klippoth

(this corresponds with Aristotle's division of

people that

believe

the purpose of life is to have pleasure), then political

people [those that do right for the sake of the right not honor], and those

that love and live the contemplative life.

This also

corresponds with the three worlds.

1.

The pleasure seekers have root

-

souls from the physical universe.

2.

The political people [people keeping and

learning the laws of the Torah] from the world of Formation [on the level of

good and evil].

3.

Scientists and philosophers are from

Creation.

4.

The highest level of those attached to God

are from Emanation and included in Aristotle's contemplative category.

[The

religious divisions are horizontal and not vertical. Spiritual Judaism is on

the inside to the left [God's right], Legal Judaism is on the inside to the

right, Protestantism is just outside of Judaism on the left.

Catholicism

on the inside to the right. Islam is outside of both also

to the right and left etc.

However,

all this refers to the physical Jewish people or Christian people etc. But

since the Torah is given for every level and all time and all generations it

refers to the higher levels also. Thus, there is a spiritual Israel with souls

that are of Israel though their bodies are not, and

vice

versa

-

and this is on

the level of

Formation,

that is

,

political people or people involved with the separation of

good from evil in society in general.

So, it is

safe to assume that social minded people that are battling for the good of

society, not for

personal

honor are from the spiritual Israel of Formation. On the

next level up, those involved in contemplation of God and his works are from

the spiritual Israel of Creation

, p

eople

attached constantly to God are from the spiritual Israel of Emanation. But on

all these levels everything depends on

one's

intent so if one is involved in contemplation of God with some ulterior motive

he is not from the spiritual Israel, even though they are from Creation.

People

however do differ in their tendencies based on their DNA structure so there

definitely is an effect on people by being born Jewish, but it isn't the same

as when the actual soul is Jewish - which is independent of how one was born.]

·

It's

interesting to notice that the Rambam places philosophers and scientists on a

higher spiritual plane than people who know the whole Talmud and keep all the

commandments of the Torah. I however divide people according to their character

traits:

v

The Artist

v

The Scientist-Philosopher

v

The Religious Scholar

v

The Business Man (normally religious)

v

The Leach.

But in reality,

this is the same as the Rambam as Bertrand Russell explained. The Artist is the

Prophet. Each should have the same focal point -- the King. Those that face the

opposite direction have negative of their absolute value. If facing sideways

their value is (R)

[IMAGE: image007.gif]

(Cosine of the angle

between them and the King).

If they

oscillate, they give out a wave pattern. The waves sometimes constructively

interfere and sometimes not. But you can get an average value, which is the

reason democracies work decently if at least they are facing the King While

monarchies only work well if the monarch is facing the King. That's why the

Torah stipulates that the prophet has to choose the King or at least the

Sanhedrin, who should be hopefully somewhat intelligent and therefore should

make a halfway decent choice. (The main job of the Torah King was mainly

military, so his power was limited. But still it had a big effect on the people

who their king was).

In

conclusion, we can't divide people by religion because it is almost irrelevant

to their character, which to all the major religions is the main thing, and the

main path to God. Rather the main dividing line is the thinkers and the masses.

However, this has nothing to do with intelligence for an unintelligent person

can be a deep and profound thinker, while a brilliant mind can be shallow,

trivial, and of no concern to anyone (i.e., non-fruitful).

·

(I would

like to point out that this doesn't disagree with Rabbi Nachman whose tirade

against the “philosophers” of the Enlightenment of the 1700s has little to do

with philosophy. They assumed that by pure reason without revelation they could

construct a utopia. They were a new class of what we would call intellectuals,

or social critics and reformers. Rabbi Nachman was speaking about the group that

in his days was called specifically the “philosophers”. That point of view is

diametrically opposed to the view held generally in the 1800s of Romanticism

which believes that moral passion and emotion count more than reason. This is

closer to Rabbi Nachman’s point of view.

Rabbi

Nachman also disagreed with the Sages of Israel who wanted to combine Reason

and Revelation. I have gone with the latter point of view for several reasons.

One, I have tried to take Rabbi Nachman in context of all the sages of Israel

rather than the Breslover view which sees him alone.

Rabbi

Nachman himself talks about the importance of believing in all the wise, and

all the more so the wise of Israel, and all the more so the wise of the great

authorities of halachah of the Middle Ages upon which all decisions in halachah

must be based on.

·

“What is

the way to His love and fear? When a man contemplates the wondrous and great

deeds and creations of the Creator, and sees from them His infinite wisdom,

immediately he will love and praise Him and desire to know Him with tremendous

longing… And when he thinks about these things, he will become awestruck and

know that he is a small creature before He who is perfect in knowledge.

Therefore, I will explain important principles in the creations of the Creator

in order that these things should be a key to understand and to love God.”

-­ Mishna

Torah Laws of the Foundations of the Torah, Chapter 2, Halachah 2.

Then, the

Rambam explains principles of Kabbalah and science. He does not say that

learning the oral or written law brings love or fear. Rather science and

kabbalah. “The fullness of the whole world is His glory.” — Psalms 24

·

The Oral

Law places true scientific knowledge on a higher plane than Torah knowledge as

it says in

Mesechta Chagigah [Chapter 2]

and as it says about Rabbi

Yochanan Ben Zakai, that “He knew great and small things. What were the great

things? The works of Creation and the

Divine Chariot

. What were the

small things? The Talmudic discussions of Abbaye and Rava.” (This is the

Talmudic source of the Rambam, Mishna Torah Book 1, Chapter 4).

·

It is

interesting to note that the mother of all books of

musar

of Torah

literature,

the Duties of the Heart

puts science, the study of logic,

and ethics on a higher spiritual plane than Torah. It is even more shocking

than the Rambam, because it says this in so many words in his introduction: “I

have seen fit to conclude the introduction of this book with a story that will

make you zealous to understand its subjects and awaken you to know the

importance of this type of commandment [of the heart] above the other type

[physical]

and the importance of physical science and the science of ethics

and the science of logic above the wisdom of the Torah

.” This study in his

days was confined to Aristotle and Plato and their commentaries, and in

particular Averroes.

·

There was

after the incident of Bar Kokhba a tremendous change on the Jewish personality.

From nationalist dreams of an immediate savior of Israel and search for

philosophical and scientific knowledge they became a fearful isolated religion

and devoted all their energies toward the accumulation of the oral laws into

the two Talmud's. However, the Rambam and other sages in the later Middle Ages

realized that Science and philosophy were an integral part of the Torah. This

trend was followed by the Christian thinkers and mystics from that time and

during the Renaissance until the 1600's when there was the violent

anti-Reformation which began the divorce of faith and reason in the Christian

and followed by the Jewish world.

·

The Gra

and Rabbi Moshe Chayim Luttzato don't hold that science is a part of Torah. The

Gra however, says, “The degree that one lacks in any one of the seven wisdoms

will cause him to lack in knowledge of the Torah a hundred-fold” (referring to

the division of the natural sciences into seven groups by Aristotle) (Quoted in

the introduction to the translation of Euclid into Hebrew by Rabbi Baruch of Shklov

the disciple of the Gra). However, the Rambam holds that science is Torah, for

in the 1st two chapters of the Mishne Torah he writes basic ideas of philosophy

and kabbalah, and in the next two, he writes basic concepts of science

(astronomy, chemistry, etc.). Then he concludes and says, “The subjects I have

written about in these first four chapters are what the Sages call “the

Orchard”. Then in the laws of learning the Torah he says the things called

Orchard are considered learning Torah (on the highest level which he mentions

there.)

To answer

the contradiction to the Rambam I would say science is on the level of the

worlds above Emanation, that if you learn it to bring yourself to God, it’s a

part of Torah and included in the worlds of holiness. (See Lekutei Moharan Vol.

1, Chapt. 19, and Vol. 2, Chapt 78, and Chapt. 91, where Rabbi Nachman answers

this himself in basically the same way.)

·

The

knowledge of science which there

is today wasn't

known to the Gra or the Chasam Sofer who agreed with the Sefer HaBris which is

actually just the science that was known then. A lot of that science is

actually not correct. But still the Ramchal says that which is relevant to the

outer aspects of the physical world isn't Torah. Only that which relates to the

inner part of this world, or which relates to the inner or outer part of the

higher worlds is Torah. The reason may be that as you rise pyramidally, the

Torah includes whatever is in a time-like direction. The Rambam could answer

this however by saying that science is the explanation of the inner-laws by

which the physical universe works.

·

Rabbi

Nachman said to learn science in the Sefer Hamidos. The places where he says

not to are referring to the science of his day which was faulty. (The Rambam

makes this same distinction in reference to what the sages say not to learn

“outer wisdoms” which he said meant faulty wisdoms. (Many scientists then and

now tend to be hard-headed sceptics.) However, many of the great ones tend to

be spirituality oriented. For instance, Einstein, Kepler and Copernicus, who

was a church man, Feynman who at the end of his life became interested in the

New World ideas, John Grisham, the author of Omega Point, Oppenheimer (the Bhagavad

Gita), Neumann who was baptized into (of all things) the Catholic faith!, and

Paul Dirac who became interested in Jungian Psychology and the Kabbalah,

Socrates and the quiet voice that advised him -- as he mentioned before his

judges at his last trial. It seems these people got to the place where the mind

and the spiritual meet and tried to cross the bridge.]

·

The Gra

and the Chasam Sofer sided with “The Guide for the Perplexed” of the Rambam.

Rabbi Nachman actually quotes from it, though he railed against it, in the part

about the five differences between the intelligence of men and God.

Rabbi

Nachman's quotes from Socrates that “the highest knowledge is to know that one

does not know”. This statement is from the speech of Socrates who was told by

the oracle at Delphi that he is the wisest of all men. Then he went to all the

wise men and discovered that they knew nothing and thus he explained to the

oracle that he was the wisest, because he knew that he knew nothing. Don't look

for it in the

Guide

because it's not there.

Rabbi

Nachman's war wasn't against philosophy, but the so called propagandists of

France at that time known as the “philosophes”. And against subjugating

revelation to reason, but he agreed that you need both, as we see in the

Lekutai

Moharan

Vol 1 Chapt 1, Chapt 61 Vol 2, Chapt 91, and

Sefer Hamidot

,

Daat vol. 2 num. 2

·

The

struggle between reason and faith has had a long history in Judaism, Islam and

Christianity. The regular scientists and clergy always seem to be at odds while

the great geniuses of science and religion always point in the same direction

to the essential fact that there is no true conflict, and that revelation and

reason are both necessary and possible to achieve. This conflict and

oscillation between these two poles are what spurns growth. This oscillation

creates the spiritual waves that shape the existence of humankind.

·

The thing

about physics and Math is that at least they don't claim to make people better,

even though they in fact have a good effect, i.e., they don't make people

righteous, just a little better than what they would have been otherwise - at

least it trains one to think logically - and if this would translate into

action the world might just be a better place.

Bertrand

Russell said that there is a lot more virtue in intelligence than in virtue

(the top three sephirot - Wisdom, Understanding and Knowledge, vs. the lower

seven - which are on the level of good and evil, permitted and forbidden, pure

and impure). This is like the Rambam, in that science is on a higher spiritual

level than Torah and

mitzvos

.

·

Abraham

Maslov said, “a soul not exposed to higher and beautiful things dries up and

dies.” The Yerushalmi says, “All are prone to sickness if they lack music.” The

Rambam says in the

Eight Chapters

that sometimes one needs to sit among

the “beautiful figures” to revive his soul. Beauty is the middle

sephirah

and

holds the node of the soul in place so the right and left sephirot can vibrate

in resonance with the energy waves coming from the higher sephirot.

·

The root

of Physics and Math is in the worlds which are above the world of Emanation,

and thus at the time of the breaking of the vessels they fell into the lower

worlds. But if one learns them with fear of God, they have the power to bring

one up to his higher root (This is the reason the sciences have been emphasized

by the non-Jews who are from the same world).

·

The idea

of learning science and math is to be attached to the thoughts of God in the

creation of this world. This is what the Sages of the Talmud call the

Work

of Creation.

The idea of learning Kabbalah is to be attached to the

thoughts of God in the creation of the higher spiritual worlds. So, one

fulfills the commandment of being attached to God by learning science, math,

and kabbalah. By learning Jewish law, one attaches his mind to the tree of

knowledge of good and evil which was forbidden to Adam, and by doing so he fell

from the world of

formation

into the world of

action

. However,

for us here one is required to know the law. Rabbi Chayim Vital writes “for

those who understand the Talmud very well they should learn it at the most two

hours a day and the rest of the day learn Kabbalah. [In the days of Rabbi

Chayim Vital there was no true science, so it wasn't mentioned by him.] But

people who don't understand the Talmud shouldn't learn it at all, rather they

should learn kabbalah all day.” The books of the disciples of the Baal Shem Tov

are a commentary on the kabbalah and show how it applies in daily life.

·

Rabbi

Chayim Vital is clear that the Talmud and authorities are on the level of The

Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil, which was forbidden to Adam to eat from.

This is actually from the Zohar, but since the Zohar can be interpreted

differently, I have to bring this statement from Rabbi Chayim Vital. He says he

who understands them well should learn them at the most 2 hours a day in order

to break through the barriers and reach the core of good but everyone else

should just learn kabbalah all day. I believe science and math in their higher

root are higher than the world of emanation, and if one learns them with fear

of God are an essential part of kabbalah, i.e., kabbalah is from the name 45,

science from the name 63 and 52 and together can draw the light of the name 72.

·

To come

to the truth of Science and Kabbalah is by fear of God, but too much fear of

God isn't good as it says in proverbs, “Don't be righteous overly much.” For

instance, there is the personality of the 'artist', whose whole personality can

be ruined by fear of God if it isn't done in the right way with moderation. He

needs his evil inclination alive and well to function as a creator. (What I

mean by an artist is one who may be an artist in music or in science and kabbalah

also. Creativity knows no bounds.) But he needs not to do sin also. But the

scientist philosopher type isn't ruined by a lot of fear of God.

·

Even in

holiness there are services to God one is prevented from Heaven from doing.

Don't try to break the gates that God has made. Rabbi Nachman said not to be

stubborn about anything. When one path is closed to someone, I think that it

does no good to force down the door for its only result is to have that, and

other doors, closed.

·

Science

provides a garment for kabbalah so the klipos can't penetrate. Science tends to

take out of the fight between good and evil.

·

The

wisdom of the physical world has its’ root in the circular sephirot, so

learning it draws that light upon one which provides an outer light that

surrounds one and protects him. On the other hand, Kabbalah draws the inner

light.

·

Math and

Physics are the hidden light of the sealed statement of creation in which the

holiness of God is hidden. Nothing exists besides God, and everything is just

his Light in the vessels before our eyes, there is a great holiness in science

and mathematics. In fact, not just some holiness but the holiness of the hidden

Statement that caused the Creation, which is the highest holiness. But unless

it's connected with God it falls.

·

The sephirah

of Wisdom is the reality of the idea of Plato where the idea is the reality. Whereas

the lower sephirot are guided by those ideas. This explains how the Rambam can

equate philosophy with Kabbalah.

·

Every

book has its own given tempo just like music. It is important to read every

book at its given tempo and that takes precedence to understanding since if you

read it at the right tempo, you'll enjoy it and come back and learn it again

and again.

·

The

commandments are on the level of Royalty and so one word of learning Torah is

worth more than all the commandments together even if done with absolute

perfection. Yet Science is on the level of Understanding and thus one word of

science is worth more than all the words of Torah. Kabbalah is on the level of Wisdom

and prayer on the level of the Crown, and thus worth more than all others.

[This is true only in accord with the system of most of the later kabbalists,

not to the Reshash who puts the written Law on the level of action of

zeir

anpin

while the other kinds of learning in formation creation and emanation

of

nukbah

.(but that is only in the vertical system after the correction

anyway.)]

·

If we

would apply Rabbi Nachman's principle of just saying the words in order and to

have faith that eventually you will understand, to Mathematics, it would seem

to me that we would have a way that even the dullest student could become a

genius in Math. But if one does this because he thinks it makes sense, he will

cease to do it. But if one does it because he has faith in the saint who said

to do it, then he will continue and have success. However, I will say how it

works. Fear of God, and good and strong character traits provide the vessels

for the light. Then by being involved with it the light is drawn as an outer

light, that surrounds the person. By doing the exercises it enters into the

vessels.

·

There is

a principle called the love force. This force is a physical force that changes

reality. Therefore, the only real learning is by the love principle. For by

loving a subject you'll be able to break down the door in front of it. That's

one reason for Rabbi Nachman's idea of just saying the words in order and then

to go on without review. For if you love it that's all you need to get inside

the door.

·

My

impression is that whatever people do to make themselves more happy results in

their being more unhappy.

