
oracle that he was the wisest, because he knew that he knew nothing. Don't look

for it in the

Guide

because it's not there.

Rabbi

Nachman's war wasn't against philosophy, but the so called propagandists of

France at that time known as the “philosophes”. And against subjugating

revelation to reason, but he agreed that you need both, as we see in the

Lekutai

Moharan

Vol 1 Chapt 1, Chapt 61 Vol 2, Chapt 91, and

Sefer Hamidot

,

Daat vol. 2 num. 2

·

The

struggle between reason and faith has had a long history in Judaism, Islam and

Christianity. The regular scientists and clergy always seem to be at odds while

the great geniuses of science and religion always point in the same direction

to the essential fact that there is no true conflict, and that revelation and

reason are both necessary and possible to achieve. This conflict and

oscillation between these two poles are what spurns growth. This oscillation

creates the spiritual waves that shape the existence of humankind.

·

The thing

about physics and Math is that at least they don't claim to make people better,

even though they in fact have a good effect, i.e., they don't make people

righteous, just a little better than what they would have been otherwise - at

least it trains one to think logically - and if this would translate into

action the world might just be a better place.

Bertrand

Russell said that there is a lot more virtue in intelligence than in virtue

(the top three sephirot - Wisdom, Understanding and Knowledge, vs. the lower

seven - which are on the level of good and evil, permitted and forbidden, pure

and impure). This is like the Rambam, in that science is on a higher spiritual

level than Torah and

mitzvos

.

·

Abraham

Maslov said, “a soul not exposed to higher and beautiful things dries up and

dies.” The Yerushalmi says, “All are prone to sickness if they lack music.” The

Rambam says in the

Eight Chapters

that sometimes one needs to sit among

the “beautiful figures” to revive his soul. Beauty is the middle
