·

(I would

like to point out that this doesn't disagree with Rabbi Nachman whose tirade

against the “philosophers” of the Enlightenment of the 1700s has little to do

with philosophy. They assumed that by pure reason without revelation they could

construct a utopia. They were a new class of what we would call intellectuals,

or social critics and reformers. Rabbi Nachman was speaking about the group that

in his days was called specifically the “philosophers”. That point of view is

diametrically opposed to the view held generally in the 1800s of Romanticism

which believes that moral passion and emotion count more than reason. This is

closer to Rabbi Nachman’s point of view.

Rabbi

Nachman also disagreed with the Sages of Israel who wanted to combine Reason

and Revelation. I have gone with the latter point of view for several reasons.

One, I have tried to take Rabbi Nachman in context of all the sages of Israel

rather than the Breslover view which sees him alone.

Rabbi

Nachman himself talks about the importance of believing in all the wise, and

all the more so the wise of Israel, and all the more so the wise of the great

authorities of halachah of the Middle Ages upon which all decisions in halachah

must be based on.

·

“What is

the way to His love and fear? When a man contemplates the wondrous and great

deeds and creations of the Creator, and sees from them His infinite wisdom,

immediately he will love and praise Him and desire to know Him with tremendous

longing… And when he thinks about these things, he will become awestruck and

know that he is a small creature before He who is perfect in knowledge.

Therefore, I will explain important principles in the creations of the Creator

in order that these things should be a key to understand and to love God.”

-­ Mishna

Torah Laws of the Foundations of the Torah, Chapter 2, Halachah 2.

Then, the

Rambam explains principles of Kabbalah and science. He does not say that

learning the oral or written law brings love or fear. Rather science and

kabbalah. “The fullness of the whole world is His glory.” — Psalms 24

·

The Oral

Law places true scientific knowledge on a higher plane than Torah knowledge as

it says in

Mesechta Chagigah [Chapter 2]

and as it says about Rabbi

Yochanan Ben Zakai, that “He knew great and small things. What were the great

things? The works of Creation and the

Divine Chariot

. What were the
