
sephirah

and

holds the node of the soul in place so the right and left sephirot can vibrate

in resonance with the energy waves coming from the higher sephirot.

·

The root

of Physics and Math is in the worlds which are above the world of Emanation,

and thus at the time of the breaking of the vessels they fell into the lower

worlds. But if one learns them with fear of God, they have the power to bring

one up to his higher root (This is the reason the sciences have been emphasized

by the non-Jews who are from the same world).

·

The idea

of learning science and math is to be attached to the thoughts of God in the

creation of this world. This is what the Sages of the Talmud call the

Work

of Creation.

The idea of learning Kabbalah is to be attached to the

thoughts of God in the creation of the higher spiritual worlds. So, one

fulfills the commandment of being attached to God by learning science, math,

and kabbalah. By learning Jewish law, one attaches his mind to the tree of

knowledge of good and evil which was forbidden to Adam, and by doing so he fell

from the world of

formation

into the world of

action

. However,

for us here one is required to know the law. Rabbi Chayim Vital writes “for

those who understand the Talmud very well they should learn it at the most two

hours a day and the rest of the day learn Kabbalah. [In the days of Rabbi

Chayim Vital there was no true science, so it wasn't mentioned by him.] But

people who don't understand the Talmud shouldn't learn it at all, rather they

should learn kabbalah all day.” The books of the disciples of the Baal Shem Tov

are a commentary on the kabbalah and show how it applies in daily life.

·

Rabbi

Chayim Vital is clear that the Talmud and authorities are on the level of The

Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil, which was forbidden to Adam to eat from.

This is actually from the Zohar, but since the Zohar can be interpreted

differently, I have to bring this statement from Rabbi Chayim Vital. He says he

who understands them well should learn them at the most 2 hours a day in order

to break through the barriers and reach the core of good but everyone else

should just learn kabbalah all day. I believe science and math in their higher

root are higher than the world of emanation, and if one learns them with fear

of God are an essential part of kabbalah, i.e., kabbalah is from the name 45,

science from the name 63 and 52 and together can draw the light of the name 72.
