
·

To come

to the truth of Science and Kabbalah is by fear of God, but too much fear of

God isn't good as it says in proverbs, “Don't be righteous overly much.” For

instance, there is the personality of the 'artist', whose whole personality can

be ruined by fear of God if it isn't done in the right way with moderation. He

needs his evil inclination alive and well to function as a creator. (What I

mean by an artist is one who may be an artist in music or in science and kabbalah

also. Creativity knows no bounds.) But he needs not to do sin also. But the

scientist philosopher type isn't ruined by a lot of fear of God.

·

Even in

holiness there are services to God one is prevented from Heaven from doing.

Don't try to break the gates that God has made. Rabbi Nachman said not to be

stubborn about anything. When one path is closed to someone, I think that it

does no good to force down the door for its only result is to have that, and

other doors, closed.

·

Science

provides a garment for kabbalah so the klipos can't penetrate. Science tends to

take out of the fight between good and evil.

·

The

wisdom of the physical world has its’ root in the circular sephirot, so

learning it draws that light upon one which provides an outer light that

surrounds one and protects him. On the other hand, Kabbalah draws the inner

light.

·

Math and

Physics are the hidden light of the sealed statement of creation in which the

holiness of God is hidden. Nothing exists besides God, and everything is just

his Light in the vessels before our eyes, there is a great holiness in science

and mathematics. In fact, not just some holiness but the holiness of the hidden

Statement that caused the Creation, which is the highest holiness. But unless

it's connected with God it falls.

·

The sephirah

of Wisdom is the reality of the idea of Plato where the idea is the reality. Whereas

the lower sephirot are guided by those ideas. This explains how the Rambam can

equate philosophy with Kabbalah.

·

Every

book has its own given tempo just like music. It is important to read every

book at its given tempo and that takes precedence to understanding since if you

read it at the right tempo, you'll enjoy it and come back and learn it again

and again.
