
Orchard are considered learning Torah (on the highest level which he mentions

there.)

To answer

the contradiction to the Rambam I would say science is on the level of the

worlds above Emanation, that if you learn it to bring yourself to God, it’s a

part of Torah and included in the worlds of holiness. (See Lekutei Moharan Vol.

1, Chapt. 19, and Vol. 2, Chapt 78, and Chapt. 91, where Rabbi Nachman answers

this himself in basically the same way.)

·

The

knowledge of science which there

is today wasn't

known to the Gra or the Chasam Sofer who agreed with the Sefer HaBris which is

actually just the science that was known then. A lot of that science is

actually not correct. But still the Ramchal says that which is relevant to the

outer aspects of the physical world isn't Torah. Only that which relates to the

inner part of this world, or which relates to the inner or outer part of the

higher worlds is Torah. The reason may be that as you rise pyramidally, the

Torah includes whatever is in a time-like direction. The Rambam could answer

this however by saying that science is the explanation of the inner-laws by

which the physical universe works.

·

Rabbi

Nachman said to learn science in the Sefer Hamidos. The places where he says

not to are referring to the science of his day which was faulty. (The Rambam

makes this same distinction in reference to what the sages say not to learn

“outer wisdoms” which he said meant faulty wisdoms. (Many scientists then and

now tend to be hard-headed sceptics.) However, many of the great ones tend to

be spirituality oriented. For instance, Einstein, Kepler and Copernicus, who

was a church man, Feynman who at the end of his life became interested in the

New World ideas, John Grisham, the author of Omega Point, Oppenheimer (the Bhagavad

Gita), Neumann who was baptized into (of all things) the Catholic faith!, and

Paul Dirac who became interested in Jungian Psychology and the Kabbalah,

Socrates and the quiet voice that advised him -- as he mentioned before his

judges at his last trial. It seems these people got to the place where the mind

and the spiritual meet and tried to cross the bridge.]

·

The Gra

and the Chasam Sofer sided with “The Guide for the Perplexed” of the Rambam.

Rabbi Nachman actually quotes from it, though he railed against it, in the part

about the five differences between the intelligence of men and God.

Rabbi

Nachman's quotes from Socrates that “the highest knowledge is to know that one

does not know”. This statement is from the speech of Socrates who was told by

the oracle at Delphi that he is the wisest of all men. Then he went to all the

wise men and discovered that they knew nothing and thus he explained to the
