
small things? The Talmudic discussions of Abbaye and Rava.” (This is the

Talmudic source of the Rambam, Mishna Torah Book 1, Chapter 4).

·

It is

interesting to note that the mother of all books of

musar

of Torah

literature,

the Duties of the Heart

puts science, the study of logic,

and ethics on a higher spiritual plane than Torah. It is even more shocking

than the Rambam, because it says this in so many words in his introduction: “I

have seen fit to conclude the introduction of this book with a story that will

make you zealous to understand its subjects and awaken you to know the

importance of this type of commandment [of the heart] above the other type

[physical]

and the importance of physical science and the science of ethics

and the science of logic above the wisdom of the Torah

.” This study in his

days was confined to Aristotle and Plato and their commentaries, and in

particular Averroes.

·

There was

after the incident of Bar Kokhba a tremendous change on the Jewish personality.

From nationalist dreams of an immediate savior of Israel and search for

philosophical and scientific knowledge they became a fearful isolated religion

and devoted all their energies toward the accumulation of the oral laws into

the two Talmud's. However, the Rambam and other sages in the later Middle Ages

realized that Science and philosophy were an integral part of the Torah. This

trend was followed by the Christian thinkers and mystics from that time and

during the Renaissance until the 1600's when there was the violent

anti-Reformation which began the divorce of faith and reason in the Christian

and followed by the Jewish world.

·

The Gra

and Rabbi Moshe Chayim Luttzato don't hold that science is a part of Torah. The

Gra however, says, “The degree that one lacks in any one of the seven wisdoms

will cause him to lack in knowledge of the Torah a hundred-fold” (referring to

the division of the natural sciences into seven groups by Aristotle) (Quoted in

the introduction to the translation of Euclid into Hebrew by Rabbi Baruch of Shklov

the disciple of the Gra). However, the Rambam holds that science is Torah, for

in the 1st two chapters of the Mishne Torah he writes basic ideas of philosophy

and kabbalah, and in the next two, he writes basic concepts of science

(astronomy, chemistry, etc.). Then he concludes and says, “The subjects I have

written about in these first four chapters are what the Sages call “the

Orchard”. Then in the laws of learning the Torah he says the things called
