
pleasurable or not. All that matters is that it should be against the Torah.

It's the evil angel that wrestled with Jacob that appeared to him as a Torah

sage because that particular evil angel knows the law very well and put

pleasure into things that would have no physical or emotional satisfaction

except for the fact that this imp knows it is forbidden

.

·

The oral

law is like a brick of gold that stretches from Moses until the center of the

empty space [vertically]. [Prayer is going back up]. The Oral Law as contained

in the Talmud is only one small horizontal slice. Since the Talmud stretches

vertically this would apply also to the written law or prophecy and Kabbalah

etc. Thus, we find a continuation after the Talmud of the light of the Talmud

in the

Geonim

and later authorities.

Chapter 11 – On Science

“Investigation

of the wisdom of the Creator that is seen from the creations is the closest

path to clarity of knowledge of His existence.” —

Chovot Halevavot

,

Section 2, Introduction

“Since

the creation of the world, God's invisible qualities - his eternal power and

Divine nature -- have been clearly seen, being understood from what has been

made” — Romans 1:20.

This is

the line that prompted Michal Faraday to try to understand electricity, and

thus the connection between electricity and magnetism which is the source for

modern electricity was discovered. “Know that proportional to one's knowledge

of the Torah and the nature of the world, so the world is handed over to him

and subjugated under him.”

-Sefer HaMidot, Daat vol.2, Num 2.

·

In the

first four chapters of Mishnah Torah the Rambam gives a brief account of the

Kabbalah of the Torah and the science that was known in his days, and finishes

by saying, “The ideas of these last four chapters are what the first

authorities call the ‘Pardes’” Then in Chapter 1  (Laws of Torah Study,

Halachah 11-12), he writes “One must divide the time of his study, a third in

the written Torah, a third in the oral Torah and a third in understanding one

thing from another… which is called Gemarah… The things called the “Pardes”

(the fruit tree garden) is in the category of the Gemarah.” The Rambam thus

openly says that learning science is in the category of the commandment to

learn Torah and also on a higher level of Torah than the Talmud and legal authorities.
