
People

however do differ in their tendencies based on their DNA structure so there

definitely is an effect on people by being born Jewish, but it isn't the same

as when the actual soul is Jewish - which is independent of how one was born.]

·

It's

interesting to notice that the Rambam places philosophers and scientists on a

higher spiritual plane than people who know the whole Talmud and keep all the

commandments of the Torah. I however divide people according to their character

traits:

v

The Artist

v

The Scientist-Philosopher

v

The Religious Scholar

v

The Business Man (normally religious)

v

The Leach.

But in reality,

this is the same as the Rambam as Bertrand Russell explained. The Artist is the

Prophet. Each should have the same focal point -- the King. Those that face the

opposite direction have negative of their absolute value. If facing sideways

their value is (R)

[IMAGE: image007.gif]

(Cosine of the angle

between them and the King).

If they

oscillate, they give out a wave pattern. The waves sometimes constructively

interfere and sometimes not. But you can get an average value, which is the

reason democracies work decently if at least they are facing the King While

monarchies only work well if the monarch is facing the King. That's why the

Torah stipulates that the prophet has to choose the King or at least the

Sanhedrin, who should be hopefully somewhat intelligent and therefore should

make a halfway decent choice. (The main job of the Torah King was mainly

military, so his power was limited. But still it had a big effect on the people

who their king was).

In

conclusion, we can't divide people by religion because it is almost irrelevant

to their character, which to all the major religions is the main thing, and the

main path to God. Rather the main dividing line is the thinkers and the masses.

However, this has nothing to do with intelligence for an unintelligent person

can be a deep and profound thinker, while a brilliant mind can be shallow,

trivial, and of no concern to anyone (i.e., non-fruitful).

