Chapter 6 - Israel

·

One

should not go to live in Israel when it is surrounded by enemies who want to

destroy it. The issue is what to do when it will be peaceful. The Rambam and

Ramban hold that one should live there even before the Messiah comes. The

question however remains about the oath in the Song of Songs not to go up as a

wall which certainly seems to be the case in the creation of a state.

Experience

has shown that the oath is still in place since the end of the oath has been a

constant factor there (i.e., “I foreswear you not to go up as a wall and if

not, I will make your blood free for all.”)

·

The

Satmer Rav [Reb Yoel Teitelbaum] allowed his followers to live there as long as

they would have nothing to do with the State. But there is no person in Mea

Shearim who doesn't receive directly into his bank account money from the

Bituach Leumi. The religious, as much as they hate the non-religious there,

have exactly the same mentality. One can't help but be influenced by the place

he lives in.

·

There is

a tremendous flow of light there, for which reason it makes sense to visit, but

not to stay, since you are only theoretically a citizen but not actually. It is

the equivalent now of living in a foreign country with the disadvantage that

you think it's your people while actually they see you as you really are a

citizen of the country you came from.

·

Don't

give up your family, your religion, your mate, your friend, or your country so

fast. There may be times when it is necessary but then only under extreme

duress. Rabbi Abba hid from Rav Yehuda because he wanted to go to Israel, and

Rav Yehudah said that whoever goes to Israel is transgressing a positive

commandment as it says, “They will be brought to Babylon and there they will be

until I visit them says the Lord.” So, it's one of those things that some

authorities say is a good thing, others say it is not, and in such a case its

up to the individual to decide for himself. This is one of those vast areas in

Torah where free will is given but in orthodox theology there is complete

denial that these areas exist. This is one of the most essential points of this

book - the fact that there is such a thing as free will even within the

confines of the Torah- not free-will between good and evil but free will

between two equally good things - and what you should do is dependent on your

character and your individual mission in life. Within the strict confines of

the Talmud, it is possible to permit just about anything and to forbid just

about anything and both ways are correct, one way is from kindness and the

other from strict judgement. Many people are somewhere in the middle.

·

But the

truth is we have to rise above good and evil into the realm of truth and light

and beauty [which is the combination of truth and light-truth is the vessel

that contains light] by development of one's soul and raising it to that level.

·

The Torah

requires you to do what your inner heart says in order to bring up the good in

klipat noga and the darkness should disappear by the drawing of the light (here

there are two kinds of good, the good on the level of good and evil; permitted

and forbidden; pure and impure, and the other type of good on the level of higher

light where evil is just lack of that light).

·

Listening

to one's heart isn't just good advice, it is a positive commandment. For the

voice of the inner heart is small prophecy and a prophet is required to obey

his own prophecy whether he likes it or not.

God is

strict about the laws of the Bible, but that strictness isn't about keeping the

laws in the way they apply in general rather it's about how they apply to you

alone — as we see you singular is the noun of many of the commandments.

God's

code of law applies differently to each person.

[Two

other major things that God is strict about are keeping what you promise to do

for God in time of stress and emergency. He doesn't like it if when the danger

goes away, you forget about your promise. The other thing, is things revealed

in a dream]

·

I think

according to the way I see God runs the world that one should go to Israel for

extended visits, but always retain connection with the country of originates.

For instance, one can go for let's say three years and then come back. Then go

back again. The reason is that parts of the Divine presence are still in exile

so this connection with one's native land can't be broken even if he wants it

to. The holiness of the land of Israel is still covered by the

klipot

and the reason for this is that parts of the Divine Presence are still in exile

and needs its corrections in those places of exile.

·

The Arabs

don't recognize any fundamental right of the Jewish people to a state with

well-defined borders. There is no way that a faithful Muslim can accept that

since it is a basic principle of the Koran that land once under Islamic rule

can never be ruled again by non-Muslims and it is a sacred obligation of every

muslim to sacrifice his life to bring that land back to Muslim rule. Therefore,

there can never be peace until the Muslims give up the Koran.

·

[Shavuot

16a]

Rabbi

Eliezer held the first Holiness was only as long as the Jewish people stayed

there. This is the halacha to all authorities. Rav Huna held that the holiness

of the land of Israel needs to be established by a King and the Urim and Tumim.

The halacha is like Rav Huna to all the authorities. Tosphot puts these two

together and comes up with the idea that

teruma

and

maaser

nowadays is only rabbinical, not biblical. This means in plain english that to

this opinion the holiness of the land of Israel nowadays is only rabbinical,

not biblical. Thus, even if we concede to the Ramban that there is a biblical

mitzvah of living in Israel [which the Rambam doesn't hold with anyway] still

who says you can fulfill it nowadays by living in Israel. Biblically speaking

Israel isn't holy, only rabbinically, at least according to this last way of

thinking... However, there are opinions that it is Biblically holy also

·

None of

these reasons would be sufficient to cause one not to live in Israel except

that Jesus said when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies get up and leave.

This advice saved the original Jewish church in Jerusalem for at first the

Roman armies came and surrounded Jerusalem and then the general was called back

to Rome. At that point the church remembering Jesus' words got up and left for

Pele in Jordan. Then the Roman armies returned and destroyed Jerusalem. Even

though Jesus said this then it seems to me that the same advice would apply

today. [The idea of Jesus was that Israel doesn't have the light of political

stability. That light seems to be particular to America].

·

Certain

ideas don't resonate with certain groups of people. This is the reason for the

failure of American foreign policy throughout the world. Things like freedom of

the press or democracy simply don't resonate with Arabs. However, statements

like “Death to the Jews” or ideas of Arab hegemony over the entire region do.

It makes a great deal of sense to me that Israel has to deal with Arab

uprisings the same way Arab countries do within their own borders.

It is

true that with Arabs in countries like America ideas like freedom do resonate

more because they are becoming americanized, but in the Middle East the idea of

freedom has no emotional weight or moment of inertia. It can come and go as

easily as the breeze. Even though the land of Israel was promised to the Jewish

people God never receded his blessing to give it to Ishmael also who was born

after God promised to give it to Abraham's children. This is especially obvious

in the

Targum

where it says “children” in the plural. God only said that

he would take it from the Canaanites. And the blessing that Ishmael was

included in referred to the land from the Nile to the Euphrates. Which in fact

is occupied by the dependents of Ishmael. The later promises to the children of

Israel in the desert specified very definite boundaries quite limited to the

present region. And further it is even more interesting that the two present

tribes that the

Je

wish people consist of (Judah and Benjamin) are the most

populated areas of Israel (Jerusalem and the surrounding area).

