
·

But the

truth is we have to rise above good and evil into the realm of truth and light

and beauty [which is the combination of truth and light-truth is the vessel

that contains light] by development of one's soul and raising it to that level.

·

The Torah

requires you to do what your inner heart says in order to bring up the good in

klipat noga and the darkness should disappear by the drawing of the light (here

there are two kinds of good, the good on the level of good and evil; permitted

and forbidden; pure and impure, and the other type of good on the level of higher

light where evil is just lack of that light).

·

Listening

to one's heart isn't just good advice, it is a positive commandment. For the

voice of the inner heart is small prophecy and a prophet is required to obey

his own prophecy whether he likes it or not.

God is

strict about the laws of the Bible, but that strictness isn't about keeping the

laws in the way they apply in general rather it's about how they apply to you

alone — as we see you singular is the noun of many of the commandments.

God's

code of law applies differently to each person.

[Two

other major things that God is strict about are keeping what you promise to do

for God in time of stress and emergency. He doesn't like it if when the danger

goes away, you forget about your promise. The other thing, is things revealed

in a dream]

·

I think

according to the way I see God runs the world that one should go to Israel for

extended visits, but always retain connection with the country of originates.

For instance, one can go for let's say three years and then come back. Then go

back again. The reason is that parts of the Divine presence are still in exile

so this connection with one's native land can't be broken even if he wants it

to. The holiness of the land of Israel is still covered by the

klipot

and the reason for this is that parts of the Divine Presence are still in exile

and needs its corrections in those places of exile.

·

The Arabs

don't recognize any fundamental right of the Jewish people to a state with

well-defined borders. There is no way that a faithful Muslim can accept that

since it is a basic principle of the Koran that land once under Islamic rule

can never be ruled again by non-Muslims and it is a sacred obligation of every

muslim to sacrifice his life to bring that land back to Muslim rule. Therefore,
