Chapter 6 - Israel

·

One

should not go to live in Israel when it is surrounded by enemies who want to

destroy it. The issue is what to do when it will be peaceful. The Rambam and

Ramban hold that one should live there even before the Messiah comes. The

question however remains about the oath in the Song of Songs not to go up as a

wall which certainly seems to be the case in the creation of a state.

Experience

has shown that the oath is still in place since the end of the oath has been a

constant factor there (i.e., “I foreswear you not to go up as a wall and if

not, I will make your blood free for all.”)

·

The

Satmer Rav [Reb Yoel Teitelbaum] allowed his followers to live there as long as

they would have nothing to do with the State. But there is no person in Mea

Shearim who doesn't receive directly into his bank account money from the

Bituach Leumi. The religious, as much as they hate the non-religious there,

have exactly the same mentality. One can't help but be influenced by the place

he lives in.

·

There is

a tremendous flow of light there, for which reason it makes sense to visit, but

not to stay, since you are only theoretically a citizen but not actually. It is

the equivalent now of living in a foreign country with the disadvantage that

you think it's your people while actually they see you as you really are a

citizen of the country you came from.

·

Don't

give up your family, your religion, your mate, your friend, or your country so

fast. There may be times when it is necessary but then only under extreme

duress. Rabbi Abba hid from Rav Yehuda because he wanted to go to Israel, and

Rav Yehudah said that whoever goes to Israel is transgressing a positive

commandment as it says, “They will be brought to Babylon and there they will be

until I visit them says the Lord.” So, it's one of those things that some

authorities say is a good thing, others say it is not, and in such a case its

up to the individual to decide for himself. This is one of those vast areas in

Torah where free will is given but in orthodox theology there is complete

denial that these areas exist. This is one of the most essential points of this

book - the fact that there is such a thing as free will even within the

confines of the Torah- not free-will between good and evil but free will

between two equally good things - and what you should do is dependent on your

character and your individual mission in life. Within the strict confines of

the Talmud, it is possible to permit just about anything and to forbid just

about anything and both ways are correct, one way is from kindness and the

other from strict judgement. Many people are somewhere in the middle.
