Chapter 4 – The Ways of Life

(or Principles of Life)

“One needs no cause. Whatever is decreed to come to one, will come

without any cause at all.

-Madregas Ha Adam (Rabbi Joseph Yozel Horwitz

)

“Not he who fasts and prays is acceptable, rather he who knows

HIM.

-The Rambam in the

Guide for the Perplexed

, chapter 53.)

·

One

should have absolute trust in God to give him a living and all his needs in

spiritual and physical matters. Still, one should do something for a living

which is a part of serving God. “Great is work, for God himself has commanded

that one should do some minimal amount of work”

— Sefer HaMidot

(by

Rabbi Nachman).

God runs

the world between two poles, trust in God and self-reliance: and as with the

uncertainty principle the exact location between those two poles you belong at

any one instant isn’t determinate. This comes from the dichotomy between the

circular and straight

sephirot

. Rabbi Nachman said one should do just

enough effort to make a vessel to receive God's blessing (in a natural way) if

he so desires to give it. The idea of the natural vessel is the name

Elohim

which has the numerical value of the word for nature which reflects the

circular sephirot. In that vessel then can come the blessing from the

Inflammable Name which reflects the straight sephirot.

·

In

general, the evil inclination can be broken only by an oath to do the right

thing. This applies also to any evil habit like masturbation — however its also

good not to eat anything in the morning until 12:00 pm, in order to break that

evil inclination.

·

Many

times, advice you receive in a dream will be much more accurate than even what

good friends give. The Rambam held that the statement of the Sages that prophecy

was taken from Israel meant only until the year 1240 and that in that year

prophecy would return to Israel. He had this tradition from his father who

received it from his father and so on. The Rambam also says that all prophets

besides Moses receive their prophecy only asleep and in dreams. He even says

that if the prophet is awake, a deep sleep has to fall upon him before he can

prophesize. This would seem to indicate nowadays there is reason to at least

consider the possibility that a dream may be more than a dream. I have had

dreams telling me what to do or telling me to follow certain daily rules [e.g.,

“You have no hope except to say the midnight prayer”, or cleanliness in the

garments to the degree of changing even if there is a little perspiration; and.

“You learn Torah. Physics is a side thing”, etc...] and I have regretted not

following them.

·

In Safed

there was a fellow named Mordechai Shebabo who was a physical education teacher

in the public high school. He also happened to be an expert fencer. He was on

the Israeli Olympic team as a fencer. A few nights before he had to leave for

the Olympics in Munich, he had a dream of Rabbi Moshe Alkebetz telling him,

“Don't go to the Olympics. Come to my grave to fix it and to clean the area.”

He of course paid no attention to it, but then on the next night he had the

same dream. After the second or third night he had already decided there was

something to it. He went down the next day to the Cave of Rabbi. Moshe Alshich

and began cleaning it. In the meantime, the rest of the team went to Munich,

and were all massacred by Palestinian terrorists.

·

One

should go to the shrine of Rabbi Nachman in Uman every Rosh Hashanah, in order

to fix the trait of power during the year, for the vertical line of light of

power is located there.

·

When one

gives up hope, that's when hope begins. God doesn't step in until one gives up --

to show that it's not your prayers or efforts that count, only his Will.

·

Don't own

anything too much. (i.e., don't be attached to anything too much. Don't

consider it yours too much.) God has a way of running things which show one

that which he thinks is his, really isn't his at all.

·

In any disagreement

between the mind and the heart, one must go after the

heart.

“Trust in the Lord with all your heart and upon your understanding do not

depend.” (Mishle) i.e., don't depend on your logic, but the voice of God in the

inner heart. (But not the desires of the outer heart. This is because human

relationships are in the spiritual realm which isn't subject to logic).

·

The

Toldos Yakov Yoseph explains that the difference between the side of good and

the side of evil is that the side of evil wants to destroy the good totally,

while the side of good doesn't want to destroy the evil but to subdue it and

allow it to exist.

·

The

principle that there is nothing besides God, one always has to accept from his

arch enemy. Judaism never noticed it until they get it from Hinduism and Rabbi

Chayim of Volozhin from the Chasidim, Rav Shik (of Breslov) from Chabad. The

same time this concept came into Jewish writings -- the 1700s -- is the exact

time the European community became infatuated with the Bhagavad Gita and the

Sutras. At any rate, for what it is worth, I will mention that the kabbalah in

the

Pardes

of Rabbi Moshe Cordavaro) has the exact middle opinion

between Shankara and Ramanuga. The teaching of the Gita is exactly duplicated

by the Baal Hatanya, that the only way to realize and come to the Oneness of

God is by meditation on it.

·

Many of

life's important principles one has to accept from his arch enemy, or never get

them at all. (Love as a principle was never noticed in Jewish writings. Jewish

writings are devoid of it for about 2000 years. It's the Christians that made a

big deal about it and finally we noticed it.)

·

Some

people are on the level of action, some on the level of words and some on the

level of thought. The way of life which applies to one can't apply to the

other. But within each group there is good and bad. On each level one must find

God.

·

The

attitude of being a fighter for justice or of hating any group or feeling like

the victim of injustice or raising children to have these attitudes creates

vindictive people who are in permanent conflict with the world and fighting for

some cause.

·

Sometimes

in life one should realize he has to come to the highest point he can get to.

Carl Jung felt that in the middle age period a transformation comes. The sages

said forty is the age of understanding. Many times, there were great leaders

that ruined their legacies just by staying on a bit too long, -- and should

have just found something else to do. The Melians thought they could hold out

against the Athenians because they knew their cause was right and they knew

they were more virtuous than the Athenians. If they had given up, they would

merely have become an Athenian colony. Instead, they held on, and all the men

were put to death, and the rest of the population were enslaved. Many times, it

is just time to give up.

Yet one

characteristic of winners is their lack of ability to give up on something that

just drives them on no matter how bleak it looks. Like Rabbi Nachman said there

is no such thing as giving up. (i.e., that even when one has given up God is

still able to save him, so there is no reality to giving up.) Truman was a

failure at 33, bankrupt at 38, yet President of the USA at 60.

This

contradiction perhaps can be answered by Epictetus: “The reality of good lies

in what is in our power. Do not wish to be a judge or politician or a lawyer,

but to be free-and there is but one way to freedom- to despise what is not in

our power.” -

Epictetus

·

A key to

self-evaluation is the opinions of one's true friends and close family. They

may not see the whole picture, but when you put yours and their point of view

together you get a three-dimensional perspective rather than your own two-dimensional

or their two-dimensional point-of-view. This is a simple mathematical fact. The

truth is that even one’s enemies point of view should be taken into account,

because even if you allow for the fact that blind hatred is the reason for most

of it there still is probably some kernel of truth.

Some of

the most important lessons in life one has to learn from one's enemy. The

reason for this is that the world one lives in is really just a reflection of

one's personality and stems from himself. Therefore, all ones' friends and

family and enemies all represent different parts of one's own personality.

Therefore, there is really no solution to one's problems except a basic change

in their personality, which after the age of five is pretty rare.  However, I

believe there is hope, for one's personality is actually a reflection of a

higher element and that is one's philosophy-or world view. Change that and you

have changed your personality. Even if the change is ever so slight it will

still have an enormous effect on the events surrounding you.

·

This

applies to whole peoples also. For instance, Germany never had to give up the

idea of their being a chosen race. They in fact have tremendous talents.

(Similarly, the Jewish people don't have to give up the idea of being the

chosen people. They in fact are a God-imbued people.) The problems come from

false conclusions from the basic facts. World conquest isn't a logical

conclusion of “chosen race”, but world betterment is. Germany could have

avoided all the problems by an ever-so-slight-change in their philosophy. But

in the long run, you can never really know who you are until it is all over.

·

An

example that a slight difference in philosophy makes a vast difference in

action is the slight difference between John Locke's democracy and Russo's.

Locke made human rights supreme and government secondary, and that led to a

democratic England and USA (until America became a socialist republic under the

New Deal).

Russo

made the general will supreme and his book has been used as a blueprint for

tyrannies and reigns of terror since then. Even though he emphasizes the

importance of the individual, like Locke, he believes the public can decide

what rights the individual can have. (It's interesting to note that Locke's

idea of inalienable rights has nothing to do with believing that people are

good, because he actually says that people are born as blank slates). Locke

derives this from the Bible. This is far from the relative humanism of the

Sophists. Rather this is a belief in absolute right and wrong and in human life

has an absolute value on the scale of values that is inalienable. Life is from

the sephirah of Wisdom, and right and wrong on the level of the lower sephirot,

so life has a value above right and wrong. [But you may ask what about the

penalties of the Torah? Those relate to values that the Torah places above

life.]

·

In

general, everything that happens with a person is an expression of their

personality. If one sees failure, he must know that it's only from his

personality and its correction is only by correcting his personality. The only

way one's future will be happier than the present is if one's future contains a

radical change in one's personality. Some search for a happiness outside of

themselves which doesn't exist. It can only exist inside oneself, if it is

created there. The door to a better future is the heart — if you can open the

door. Thus, we come to the advice of Rabbi Nachman of talking with God in a

private place. This is a key, but it doesn't open the lock unless you make it

do so. This can be misused and is no guarantee but can help and is a powerful

help.

·

I believe

Rabbi Israel Salanter must have been trying to figure out how to change one's

personality when it is a negative type. The best he could come up with was to

learn Musar, (the ethical works of Torah.) But he must have been aware that

many personality types will rise to unbelievable heights in the name of

religion, Chabad, musar, Torah, etc. and will perform awesome deeds of

righteousness for the benefit of all mankind but also inflict savagery and

untold suffering upon millions of people (particularly non-believers).

·

I believe

the true cure for a negative personality lies in the idea of John Fox that a person's

major decisions in life should be dependent on the vote of his/her family and

real friends as a group coming together to weigh all the aspects together. This

has the power of preventing a person from making serious mistakes. (“The

victory is yours when you yield to your friend” --

Sophocles

.) And if

they are a true friend and family, they won't prevent him from his positive

dreams. Also tempering revelation with reason and rationality has a strong

effect of preventing fanaticism and the guilty Puritan complex.

·

According

to

The Duties of The Heart

the entire Torah is based on the idea of

gratitude. It's important never to forget the kindness someone has done for you

no matter what happened before or after. However according to the Rambam in the

commentary on the Mishna the whole Torah is based on faith. This idea of Torah

has deeply affected Judaism until today. He says that no matter what one does

he will get to the Garden of Eden [i.e., the Jewish Garden of Eden, not

Christian one depends on belief in Jesus] if he believes in the 13-principles.

And if he doesn't believe in them, it doesn't matter what he does, he will

never get to the Garden of Eden. However, in the Talmud we find everything

depends on one's deeds. You get exactly what you give. This would seem to

contradict Rambam. If we would have only the Rambam we would say that deeds

matter only if there is already faith. However, we find The Alter from Slobadka

and the Baal Shem Tov held that deeds and faith are closely interlinked. The

Alter says that evil deeds show that the faith itself is flawed and is only

outward, while the Baal Shem Tov holds that evil deeds bring to an inner lack

of faith. According to this people that are good have inner faith deep inside

their heart even if they aren't aware of it. People that are bad may express

faith outwardly but really don't have it. Perhaps this is the opinion of the

Rambam himself for in the laws of repentance he says the Garden of Eden depends

on good deeds and wisdom.

·

The

bubble one makes for himself to isolate himself from the world will revolt and

rebel against him. This applies to individuals that think they can hide in

yeshiva, and to whole communities as well. The reason is the world is governed

by the laws of chaos and strife, so if one shuts the world out the chaos has to

overtake his particular bubble inside, and then it's worse since it is confined

to a smaller radius. You can't fight entropy forever.

·

One's

happiness depends on being oneself, not on getting things (or someone) he

thinks he needs. If one is himself, he will automatically get the things he

really needs. The reason is that the higher light doesn't flow through

constricted vessels.

·

When you

take a seat on a train or bus and then change it you will find the second many

times to be worse than the first. Many times, there is a hidden hand which

guides us, though we are unaware of it.

·

Many

times, one doesn't find what he is looking for or understand what he is

learning until he gives up looking or trying to understand. This is because the

thought or the essence of what we are looking for, has gone into the

surrounding circular light. When you let go then you are guided back to the

right place, or the right thought is guided back to you. That's why Einstein

discovered Relativity only by sleeping on it, and most great scientific

discovers are the same (this is to say that of course you can't find what you

want or understand what you want unless God wills it to come to you at that

time but the reason he uses this round about method of accident is because the

idea has to come from the surrounding light into you.) Thus, we find Issaac

Newton was prompted by the falling apple, Mendeleev was revealed the periodic

table in his dream. I've heard that Churchill got his best ideas during World

War II, while relaxing in the bathtub. In fact, penicillin; the thin layer of

the galaxy, and so many more discoveries are by accident. Feynmann was prompted

by a student flipping a plate in the dining room. Even the theory of chaos came

in such a way).

·

I used to

be annoyed when there was a fly in my room until I noticed that Analytic

Geometry started by Descartes watching a fly in his room. It occurred to him

that you could describe its position by three coordinates. What would have

happened if he had gotten up to chase it out? At any rate I figure if a fly

could start Analytic Geometry, then flies can't be

that bad --

remember

the event with King David and the spider?!

·

When I

have to run to something usually it turns out that I never should have gone or

that there was no need to run. As the Sages say, “He who presses the hour, the

hour presses him. He who is pushed away by the hour, the hour stands for him.

Rabbi Israel of Kaznitz said, “when one has a sudden urge to do a good deed,

it's a bad sign”. Rabbi Nachman said not to be stubborn. Anything that is a

true mitzvah must be worked on for a long time in order to do it. However, when

the time for a mitzvah comes one should do it right away and not delay in order

to do it better later (as the Mishna Brurah says).

·

Direct

your energies towards a single goal - the goal your heart says is right, (not

your mind or logic.) Don't aim for two targets for then you won't hit either.

Concentrate all your fire on one target. One's spiritual energy usually isn't

limitless, so you do have to deal with the fact that any goal to be achieved

well is going to need your entire attention.

·

The

problem with hatred is that one becomes that which he hates, because the side

of holiness doesn't hate anything in the way of wanting it destroyed, rather

corrected and saved. The way of being saved from ones enemies is to judge them

on the scale of merit. And pray for their good, spiritual and physical, in this

world and the next, then your prayer will reflect off them like a mirror right

back to you. And it may help them also.

·

Archenemies

are always almost completely identical (in ideas and in conduct). One side may

in fact be right and the other wrong, but it is still striking how similar they

are, e.g., the right-wing Israelis and the Palestinians, the hippies and the

establishment. As the old saying goes, “extremes meet.”

·

One should

say the thirteen principles of faith of the Rambam immediately when he wakes up

in the morning.

·

One

lacking money should say the chapter that deals with the

manna

in the

desert. There is a tradition brought in Rabbenu Bachayee that one who says it

every day will never lack a livelihood.

·

One

should pray with the intentions of the Rabbi Issac Luria in the

Siddur

HaRashash

,

except from Passover until

Shavuot

when the

Rashash

said not to

do the intentions because that period is for the building of the sephirot. I

always had a question on this because there is a distinction between the

sephirot of the day and of the year, but apparently the

Rashash

held the

if the

sephirot

of the year aren't built then you can't build the form

of each day which are dependent on it. [This would mean also during the days

from

Rosh Hashanah

until

Succot.

But I think that is going too

far and one should pray with the intentions then and depend on the opinion of

the Ramchal in his book on the intentions where he mentions that distinction

and I think it is clear that he felt one should pray with the intentions all

the time.]

·

One

should put all the intentions into one, i.e., unite all the divine names into

one point.

·

For one's

children he should say the part in Genesis which deals with creation every day

of the week. -

Sefer Hamidos.

[at least for forty days

straight for forty days is a whole time slot.]

To get married one should

say the Parsha of the sacrifices of the princes [Numbers], and the Song on the

Red Sea [Exodus].

·

The

morning prayer draws wisdom, the afternoon draws understanding and financial

security, and the evening prayer brings knowledge and blessing to one's

children. They are parallel to the 3 Patriarchs. The midnight prayer is

parallel to Leah and Rachel the Matriarchs.

·

The most

important principle in life is not to cause suffering to another person. If one

does, it will always come back to one. [As the Sages said, the measure one

measures out, is measured to him again. The Hindus assume this to be by

reincarnation but in fact there are many ways this can be done. Reincarnation

is only one of them].

·

It is a

good idea to have water near the bed to wash ones hands in the morning instead

of walking to the sink, because Reb Zushai said it is a

segula

to do so,

and the

Zohar

is strict about it.

·

Astrology

is forbidden to the Rambam but permitted to most other authorities like

Tosphot

and the

Ramban

.

·

“

Truth

is the most powerful thing in the world. It can pierce through great mountains”

— Rabbi Eliezer Shik.

·

It is an

absolutely essential part of any home to have at least one guest. There are

homeless people in every place. There are always people who need a helping

hand. Letting someone sleep on the couch is important for every home. Yet one

should never overdo his kindness in such a way that makes it hard to keep it

up. Don't be too kind, just a little kind. We see in the Torah that Abraham was

kind to the angels, but Lot went out of his way to beg them to come in and made

a very big deal about it. In such a way one gets worn out quickly. It is better

to do it with

tzimtzum

[control-and limit.]

·

In the

hierarchy of spaces there is a space called emotional space where the

components are emotions. [There is also one called Idea Space where ideas

interact.]

[IMAGE: image010.gif]

I

j

=k;

j

k

=i;

k

i

=j.

Love

multiplied by truth = victory.

Love of

love of Judgement

Love of

Truth love of eternity doing kindness.

The sephirot

emotions of the evil side are love of cruelty, love of sex as a physical act,

love of lying, or not learning wisdom etc.

·

T

wo things

one must be careful to avoid: fame and illicit sex [i.e., sex outside of

marriage].

The

reason is not that either of these things are evil, but because they are

dangerous. Sex and honor are incredibly powerful sources of energy and just

like atomic energy, if not handled with extreme caution they can be deadly. Now

sex even in marriage is by no means necessarily holy but certainly less

dangerous since there is at least the surrounding light of the marriage

commitment.

Now the

story that Rabbi Adam Baal Shem told the Baal Shem Tov about his previous

gilgul

shows that one must be careful not to reveal any good deeds one has done or

anything one has learned. It seems clear from the Lekutai Moharan that the

reason for this is that saying the good deed gives the

kelipot

an

ability to attach themselves to it.

·

Rabbenu Yona explains that

making a Rav [teacher] for oneself means even a friend. The Yerushalmi [brought

by the Rambam and Rabbenu Yona] says even any old man from the street. [The

incident where there was a rabbi wanted to decide a halacha, so he said, “Bring

in an old man from the street.”]

·

There are

two kinds of honor: one Divine honor and the other honor of men. Honor is a

surrounding light from the sepherah of M

alchut

(or understanding).

Sometimes a person has neither type, and in his case any fame or publicity he

gets will be just the evil eye and be very damaging for him. Other people do

have one or the other type of honor and in their case the fame or publicity doesn't

hurt them. However, in the case of the Divine honor, if one has it shining on

himself, but he is a sinner then he will be infamous and despised. These

purifies him so that he can continue to receive that Divine light.

