
besides Moses receive their prophecy only asleep and in dreams. He even says

that if the prophet is awake, a deep sleep has to fall upon him before he can

prophesize. This would seem to indicate nowadays there is reason to at least

consider the possibility that a dream may be more than a dream. I have had

dreams telling me what to do or telling me to follow certain daily rules [e.g.,

“You have no hope except to say the midnight prayer”, or cleanliness in the

garments to the degree of changing even if there is a little perspiration; and.

“You learn Torah. Physics is a side thing”, etc...] and I have regretted not

following them.

·

In Safed

there was a fellow named Mordechai Shebabo who was a physical education teacher

in the public high school. He also happened to be an expert fencer. He was on

the Israeli Olympic team as a fencer. A few nights before he had to leave for

the Olympics in Munich, he had a dream of Rabbi Moshe Alkebetz telling him,

“Don't go to the Olympics. Come to my grave to fix it and to clean the area.”

He of course paid no attention to it, but then on the next night he had the

same dream. After the second or third night he had already decided there was

something to it. He went down the next day to the Cave of Rabbi. Moshe Alshich

and began cleaning it. In the meantime, the rest of the team went to Munich,

and were all massacred by Palestinian terrorists.

·

One

should go to the shrine of Rabbi Nachman in Uman every Rosh Hashanah, in order

to fix the trait of power during the year, for the vertical line of light of

power is located there.

·

When one

gives up hope, that's when hope begins. God doesn't step in until one gives up --

to show that it's not your prayers or efforts that count, only his Will.

·

Don't own

anything too much. (i.e., don't be attached to anything too much. Don't

consider it yours too much.) God has a way of running things which show one

that which he thinks is his, really isn't his at all.

·

In any disagreement

between the mind and the heart, one must go after the

heart.

“Trust in the Lord with all your heart and upon your understanding do not

depend.” (Mishle) i.e., don't depend on your logic, but the voice of God in the

inner heart. (But not the desires of the outer heart. This is because human

relationships are in the spiritual realm which isn't subject to logic).

·

The

Toldos Yakov Yoseph explains that the difference between the side of good and
