Chapter 4 – The Ways of Life

(or Principles of Life)

“One needs no cause. Whatever is decreed to come to one, will come

without any cause at all.

-Madregas Ha Adam (Rabbi Joseph Yozel Horwitz

)

“Not he who fasts and prays is acceptable, rather he who knows

HIM.

-The Rambam in the

Guide for the Perplexed

, chapter 53.)

·

One

should have absolute trust in God to give him a living and all his needs in

spiritual and physical matters. Still, one should do something for a living

which is a part of serving God. “Great is work, for God himself has commanded

that one should do some minimal amount of work”

— Sefer HaMidot

(by

Rabbi Nachman).

God runs

the world between two poles, trust in God and self-reliance: and as with the

uncertainty principle the exact location between those two poles you belong at

any one instant isn’t determinate. This comes from the dichotomy between the

circular and straight

sephirot

. Rabbi Nachman said one should do just

enough effort to make a vessel to receive God's blessing (in a natural way) if

he so desires to give it. The idea of the natural vessel is the name

Elohim

which has the numerical value of the word for nature which reflects the

circular sephirot. In that vessel then can come the blessing from the

Inflammable Name which reflects the straight sephirot.

·

In

general, the evil inclination can be broken only by an oath to do the right

thing. This applies also to any evil habit like masturbation — however its also

good not to eat anything in the morning until 12:00 pm, in order to break that

evil inclination.

·

Many

times, advice you receive in a dream will be much more accurate than even what

good friends give. The Rambam held that the statement of the Sages that prophecy

was taken from Israel meant only until the year 1240 and that in that year

prophecy would return to Israel. He had this tradition from his father who

received it from his father and so on. The Rambam also says that all prophets
