
is just time to give up.

Yet one

characteristic of winners is their lack of ability to give up on something that

just drives them on no matter how bleak it looks. Like Rabbi Nachman said there

is no such thing as giving up. (i.e., that even when one has given up God is

still able to save him, so there is no reality to giving up.) Truman was a

failure at 33, bankrupt at 38, yet President of the USA at 60.

This

contradiction perhaps can be answered by Epictetus: “The reality of good lies

in what is in our power. Do not wish to be a judge or politician or a lawyer,

but to be free-and there is but one way to freedom- to despise what is not in

our power.” -

Epictetus

·

A key to

self-evaluation is the opinions of one's true friends and close family. They

may not see the whole picture, but when you put yours and their point of view

together you get a three-dimensional perspective rather than your own two-dimensional

or their two-dimensional point-of-view. This is a simple mathematical fact. The

truth is that even one’s enemies point of view should be taken into account,

because even if you allow for the fact that blind hatred is the reason for most

of it there still is probably some kernel of truth.

Some of

the most important lessons in life one has to learn from one's enemy. The

reason for this is that the world one lives in is really just a reflection of

one's personality and stems from himself. Therefore, all ones' friends and

family and enemies all represent different parts of one's own personality.

Therefore, there is really no solution to one's problems except a basic change

in their personality, which after the age of five is pretty rare.  However, I

believe there is hope, for one's personality is actually a reflection of a

higher element and that is one's philosophy-or world view. Change that and you

have changed your personality. Even if the change is ever so slight it will

still have an enormous effect on the events surrounding you.

·

This

applies to whole peoples also. For instance, Germany never had to give up the

idea of their being a chosen race. They in fact have tremendous talents.

(Similarly, the Jewish people don't have to give up the idea of being the

chosen people. They in fact are a God-imbued people.) The problems come from

false conclusions from the basic facts. World conquest isn't a logical

conclusion of “chosen race”, but world betterment is. Germany could have

avoided all the problems by an ever-so-slight-change in their philosophy. But

in the long run, you can never really know who you are until it is all over.

·

An

example that a slight difference in philosophy makes a vast difference in
