
action is the slight difference between John Locke's democracy and Russo's.

Locke made human rights supreme and government secondary, and that led to a

democratic England and USA (until America became a socialist republic under the

New Deal).

Russo

made the general will supreme and his book has been used as a blueprint for

tyrannies and reigns of terror since then. Even though he emphasizes the

importance of the individual, like Locke, he believes the public can decide

what rights the individual can have. (It's interesting to note that Locke's

idea of inalienable rights has nothing to do with believing that people are

good, because he actually says that people are born as blank slates). Locke

derives this from the Bible. This is far from the relative humanism of the

Sophists. Rather this is a belief in absolute right and wrong and in human life

has an absolute value on the scale of values that is inalienable. Life is from

the sephirah of Wisdom, and right and wrong on the level of the lower sephirot,

so life has a value above right and wrong. [But you may ask what about the

penalties of the Torah? Those relate to values that the Torah places above

life.]

·

In

general, everything that happens with a person is an expression of their

personality. If one sees failure, he must know that it's only from his

personality and its correction is only by correcting his personality. The only

way one's future will be happier than the present is if one's future contains a

radical change in one's personality. Some search for a happiness outside of

themselves which doesn't exist. It can only exist inside oneself, if it is

created there. The door to a better future is the heart — if you can open the

door. Thus, we come to the advice of Rabbi Nachman of talking with God in a

private place. This is a key, but it doesn't open the lock unless you make it

do so. This can be misused and is no guarantee but can help and is a powerful

help.

·

I believe

Rabbi Israel Salanter must have been trying to figure out how to change one's

personality when it is a negative type. The best he could come up with was to

learn Musar, (the ethical works of Torah.) But he must have been aware that

many personality types will rise to unbelievable heights in the name of

religion, Chabad, musar, Torah, etc. and will perform awesome deeds of

righteousness for the benefit of all mankind but also inflict savagery and

untold suffering upon millions of people (particularly non-believers).

·

I believe

the true cure for a negative personality lies in the idea of John Fox that a person's

major decisions in life should be dependent on the vote of his/her family and

real friends as a group coming together to weigh all the aspects together. This

has the power of preventing a person from making serious mistakes. (“The
