
victory is yours when you yield to your friend” --

Sophocles

.) And if

they are a true friend and family, they won't prevent him from his positive

dreams. Also tempering revelation with reason and rationality has a strong

effect of preventing fanaticism and the guilty Puritan complex.

·

According

to

The Duties of The Heart

the entire Torah is based on the idea of

gratitude. It's important never to forget the kindness someone has done for you

no matter what happened before or after. However according to the Rambam in the

commentary on the Mishna the whole Torah is based on faith. This idea of Torah

has deeply affected Judaism until today. He says that no matter what one does

he will get to the Garden of Eden [i.e., the Jewish Garden of Eden, not

Christian one depends on belief in Jesus] if he believes in the 13-principles.

And if he doesn't believe in them, it doesn't matter what he does, he will

never get to the Garden of Eden. However, in the Talmud we find everything

depends on one's deeds. You get exactly what you give. This would seem to

contradict Rambam. If we would have only the Rambam we would say that deeds

matter only if there is already faith. However, we find The Alter from Slobadka

and the Baal Shem Tov held that deeds and faith are closely interlinked. The

Alter says that evil deeds show that the faith itself is flawed and is only

outward, while the Baal Shem Tov holds that evil deeds bring to an inner lack

of faith. According to this people that are good have inner faith deep inside

their heart even if they aren't aware of it. People that are bad may express

faith outwardly but really don't have it. Perhaps this is the opinion of the

Rambam himself for in the laws of repentance he says the Garden of Eden depends

on good deeds and wisdom.

·

The

bubble one makes for himself to isolate himself from the world will revolt and

rebel against him. This applies to individuals that think they can hide in

yeshiva, and to whole communities as well. The reason is the world is governed

by the laws of chaos and strife, so if one shuts the world out the chaos has to

overtake his particular bubble inside, and then it's worse since it is confined

to a smaller radius. You can't fight entropy forever.

·

One's

happiness depends on being oneself, not on getting things (or someone) he

thinks he needs. If one is himself, he will automatically get the things he

really needs. The reason is that the higher light doesn't flow through

constricted vessels.

·

When you
