
the side of evil is that the side of evil wants to destroy the good totally,

while the side of good doesn't want to destroy the evil but to subdue it and

allow it to exist.

·

The

principle that there is nothing besides God, one always has to accept from his

arch enemy. Judaism never noticed it until they get it from Hinduism and Rabbi

Chayim of Volozhin from the Chasidim, Rav Shik (of Breslov) from Chabad. The

same time this concept came into Jewish writings -- the 1700s -- is the exact

time the European community became infatuated with the Bhagavad Gita and the

Sutras. At any rate, for what it is worth, I will mention that the kabbalah in

the

Pardes

of Rabbi Moshe Cordavaro) has the exact middle opinion

between Shankara and Ramanuga. The teaching of the Gita is exactly duplicated

by the Baal Hatanya, that the only way to realize and come to the Oneness of

God is by meditation on it.

·

Many of

life's important principles one has to accept from his arch enemy, or never get

them at all. (Love as a principle was never noticed in Jewish writings. Jewish

writings are devoid of it for about 2000 years. It's the Christians that made a

big deal about it and finally we noticed it.)

·

Some

people are on the level of action, some on the level of words and some on the

level of thought. The way of life which applies to one can't apply to the

other. But within each group there is good and bad. On each level one must find

God.

·

The

attitude of being a fighter for justice or of hating any group or feeling like

the victim of injustice or raising children to have these attitudes creates

vindictive people who are in permanent conflict with the world and fighting for

some cause.

·

Sometimes

in life one should realize he has to come to the highest point he can get to.

Carl Jung felt that in the middle age period a transformation comes. The sages

said forty is the age of understanding. Many times, there were great leaders

that ruined their legacies just by staying on a bit too long, -- and should

have just found something else to do. The Melians thought they could hold out

against the Athenians because they knew their cause was right and they knew

they were more virtuous than the Athenians. If they had given up, they would

merely have become an Athenian colony. Instead, they held on, and all the men

were put to death, and the rest of the population were enslaved. Many times, it
