
into the world from the level of Joseph.

·

Sex when

it is an expression of Love is a

mitzvah

since all Love is of God. And

when it is for physical pleasure, it is a sin even though it is within marriage

since then it is from the

Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil

. The Sages

hint to this when they say only a disciple of a sage can eat meat since he

brings up the sparks of holiness in the meat to God. Also, they said a person

that marries the daughter of an earthly person transgresses the command “cursed

is he that lies with an animal.”

·

In a

relationship, if the female says “it's over”, IT’S OVER. since women don't want

the sex as much as the security which she obviously believes she has found in

another way... Also, they are closer to the evil side since their root is in

the lowest sephirah. Also, their

root is

related to

the sephirah of judgement which makes them prone to anger [i.e., pure evil].

Men are from the middle sephirah and thus want sex more and are less close to

the evil side for sex in itself isn't good or evil. It depends on what one

makes of it.

·

According

to the Talmud, “The man asks with his mouth and the woman in her heart,” i.e.,

the man actually has to ask for sex. This is opposed to modern ideas that the

man is supposed to beat around the bush. However, isn't asking for anything in

the category of idolatry?!

The Sages

say in another place, “one that asks for his portion is as if he stole it.” The

answer is that if when you ask you know that in truth, “there is nothing

besides Him,” and everything you see is simply the infinite light of God in

these garments before your eyes — or put simply, everything you see is God at

least as he manifests Himself to us. However, asking anything from someone that

in your mind isn't included in God [even if you know that their granting the

request is dependent on God] is idolatry. For that is actually the exact

definition of idolatry. The Torah doesn't deny that there are other gods or

higher angels appointed over the nations and over specific things like wisdom.

The Torah is full of the existence of them. But you can't serve them. [This

incidentally explains the verse there is nothing besides Him that Rabbi Nachman

said is literal. Now you could ask, couldn't it mean there are no gods besides

Him (as we find in the Torah the subject of a verb sometimes missing as Rashi
