Chapter 3 – Jews and

Christians

·

“I

testify that whether a man or woman, slave or maid servant, Jew or

idol-worshiper, the Divine Presence rests on a person only according to his

deeds”

-Tana Deve Eliyahu,

from Eliyahu the prophet. “For it is known

that the souls of Israel are from the earth… but as for the non-Jewish nations

whose souls are from Heaven, they need not perform deeds (613

mitzvot

.)”

-- The Gaon from Vilna (The Gra.) Commentary on

Shir HaShirim,

Chap. 1,

Verse 6.

According

to Rabbi Shneur Zalman (The Baal HaTanya) (in Parshas VaYishlach) the root of

Esav is from worlds higher than Yaakov (Tohu) and that is why Isaac wanted to

bless him, but the mistake of Isaac was in not realizing that Esau had fallen

from that root.

I think

to answer the contradiction between the Gra and the Baal HaTanya that the world

the Kings of Edom in the straight sephirot must somehow have a connection with

the circular ones.

At any

rate I didn't know from where the Gra and the Baal Hatanya got this from until

I saw in

Shaar Ruach HaKodesh: Yichud 10

on the verse, “These are the

three Children of Noah” which basically gives as the root of the children of

Noah the Three Divine Names of 161, 143, and 151. But the support for the Baal

HaTanya’s point of view is the fact that in the same letters are hinted the

name

Elohim

with the

yud

filling the letters. Even though that is

wholly important to note that it is the later permutations of that name which

give rise to the

Klipot,

it seems to me that the root of non-Jews is the

three names, “I Will Be” in the eye of Adam Kamdon, not actually the full names

of 161 ,143, and 151 respectively, for in the full names there are no circular sephirot,

[unless we are referring to the circular sephirot before Adam Kadmon]. But in

Adam Kadmon, the circular sephirot are only in the three names Ehyeh in the

dots of the 63, or the forehead, which is anyway the root of Israel and not

relevant to this discussion.

According

to this idea, the explanation of the fact the three names Ehyeh take the 22

letters and make vessels from them would refer to the letters of the other

languages and this fits with the idea of the Baal Hatanya’s that the letters of

other languages also have holiness.

Now a

hint to the Gra is the fact that the Torah blesses the children of Abraham and

Issac to be like the stars of the heavens but the children of Yaakov like the

dust of the Earth. Now even though the blessing for Abraham of being like the

stars certainly goes for the Jewish people as we see in exodus 32:13, still

that blessing clearly goes on all the other children of Abraham and Issac,

[i.e., the Christian and Muslim people].

·

Rabbi

Issac Luria said the Jewish people have their root in the drops of semen that

Adam spilled during those 130 years after the sin and were born again as people

and sinned because of the rust still attached to them and had to go through the

purification process of the flood, the dispersion, and the Egyptian exile. This

may sound pretty bad; however, the root of Israel in the Higher worlds is from

Wisdom, but since they were supposed to be the children of Adam they came out

with his seed. Rabbi Nachman says the descendants of Moses have even a higher

root than that. At any rate, the root of the Jewish people is from the worlds

of correction but have had to go through a difficult purification process.

·

Rabbenu

HaKadosh said to Antonious that the promise to destroy Esau only refers to

those that hold onto the deeds of Esau. The Gemara also says that any who do

not believe in idolatry is called Jewish. In the Rambam’s enumeration of the 13

principles, we find that he says that anyone who believes in these principles

comes into the category of “Israel” even if they do as many evil deeds as they

possibly can - and anyone who does not believe in them is not Jewish. Thus, I

find in the Gemara and the Rambam the idea that whether one is considered

Jewish is not necessarily dependent on conversion or if one's mother was

Jewish, but rather it depends on one's principles and deeds. It is possible to

ignore the Gemara since it can be explained as just a

drasha

(not

halacha) but the Rambam who draws on these Gemaras clearly means his statement

to be taken as halacha...

What if

we take the drashot of the gedolai hachasidut that clearly held that the desire

for money is in the halachic category of idolatry to its natural conclusion?

Does this exclude Jewish people with the desire for money from the category of

Israel? Is now Mother Theresa and Princess Diana Jewish because they engaged in

deeds of loving kindness - [The other mitzvot, they were not obligated in since

Rashi says we should not do all the 613 any more since it would lead to no one

meriting to the next world.] Clearly, other first authorities besides the Rambam

would not hold like this since they held that the Jewish and nonJewish soul are

different.Now there is a debate as to where the Rambam lived in a spiritual

sence.Some hold in Jerusalem and others hold in Athens.I think his feet where

in Jerusalem but his head was in Athens,ie. he obviously had a vision as to

what determined a persons Jewishness was how attached to God he is.But to get

from the halacha to there ,i don't think he knew, but rather he felt

intuitively was correct. And this may apply in general for he certainly wanted

to bridge between reason and the Law, but I don't think he really knew exactly

how.

I think

the Kabbalah provides the answer to all these questions. For clearly the

mitzvot contain only the holiness of the vessels, not of the inner light which

depends on many factors, e.g., if God wants to put his light into it for that

person at that time. In a similar manner Jewish people have only the holiness

of the body, not of the spirit unless any particular persons happens to merit

to it. Now the Rambam holds that the holiness of the spirit comes from faith in

the 13 principles and so in his opinion anyone Jewish or otherwise believing in

these principles is spiritually Jewish.

·

Jesus had

the vessel of

tikun

and the light of love from

tohu

, so non-Jews

feel more affinity towards him than Jews since he contains the light of their

higher root.

The root

of the Jewish people is in the

sepherah

of Royalty which is the daughter

of Wisdom so they are usually more into good ideas (or bad ones when they fall

from their root). The root of Jesus is in the sepherah of Foundation which is

filled with the light of kindness so Christians are more into good deeds (or

bad ones when they fall from their root.) The amount of hospitals and general

help of the Catholic church for mankind for the last 2000 years is nothing less

than awesome. Similarly the amount of study and books of the Jewish people for

their history is also awesome.

·

Tana

DeBay Eliyahu, “whether a man or a woman, a slave or a maidservant, a Jew or an

idol -worshipper, the Holy Spirit rests on a person according to their deeds.”

At first

non-Jews had a soul from the outside of the

klipah

even their good

inclination is from the klipah. But when they began to believe the one God they

drew a higher holiness on themselves from their higher root. This applies to

non-Jewish nations as a whole also, for every nation is like a whole person

with some people representing the head and some the hands and others the heart

and others the soul.

·

The

reason God brought Bach, Beethoven, and Mozart was to create music that would

tie ones soul to the higher

sephirah

(divine trait). That is Bach -

glory, Mozart - kindness, Beethoven - Judgment, Handel - Royalty.

Incidentally,

Beethoven did intend his music to be specifically ethnic which for Germany and

Austria is the trait of judgment and it is only softened by the belief in Jesus

but after they threw out Jesus in the 1860s the basic ethnic philosophy of

Germany took it's place, i.e., war and conquest.

·

The

reason a non-Jew is not allowed to keep the Sabbath is that he is not effected

by the Shabbos-field energy. Jews are affected only by the straight sephirot

energy field, and non-Jews are affected only by the circular sephirot field.

Each one of the 10 sephirot has its own energy field. There are certain sephirot

that draw wisdom or children etc. And there are combinations of the fields of

the sephirot that draw different combinations of blessings.

A field

is usually created or drawn by what one occupies himself with. So if one for

instance learns math he will usually draw upon himself the math field energy.

Kindness draws a kindness field. Learning Gemarah brings its particular field

energy. Evil has its energy also. A place or country has its energy. Every day

has its own energy. The reason to be by Rabbi Nachman on Rosh Hashanah is there

is a certain energy field around a tzadik and every special day has it's own

energy field. So on Rosh Hashanah when the two combine and there is created a

electromagnetic oscillation by the presence of the chasidim, and a spiritual

electro-magnetic wave is created.

Many

times one can't help what type of field is drawn upon him or how he will be

affected by it. He can just try his best to do what is right. But general

principles can fail in specific situations and therefore God has given us a

certain intuition in the heart to be able to detect energy fields not seen by

the eye or detected by the mind.

·

It seems

to me that the world points defined by place and time are only approximations

as in General Relativity and it's really only the properties of the field

around one determine his spirituality and closeness with God. As Rebbi said to

Antoninus, “Esau, but not all Esau”, i.e., what the Torah says in general is

only an approximation unless it says “all”. Of course the idea of the

mitzvot

is to draw the field energy. Every family has its specific energy field around

it.

·

There is

a disagreement among the first authorities if the Jewish and gentile soul is

the same thing. The other authorities say there is a difference in the souls

and this opinion I have followed in this book since it is of Rabbi Luria also.

·

Thought

in Judaism follows a parallel path to that of their neighbors (but they add a

Jewish touch and talent to it), since non-Jews are from Tohu which is above

Tikun which is the root of the Jewish people. For example after the Romans

codified their laws in Justinian's reign, the Jews codified their's in the same

period.

·

Since the

western Catholic Church followed rationalistic tendencies, so did the Jews in

western Europe and in Catholic lands like Poland and Lithuania. (The hard

headed rationalism of Jews from those areas is quite famous.) Since the split

of the Roman Empire Constantinople and the Eastern Church followed mystical

tendencies and subsequently when the Muslims took over that area they

incorporated the same ideas in the Sufi. And so we shouldn't be surprised to

find Sephardic Jewry from Islamic lands and Russian Jewry (who lived in lands

under the Eastern Church) having strong mystical tendencies. The Kabbalah

originates in fact in Islamic Spain before it was conquered by the

Christians.When Martin Luther broke away from the church and said one needs

only faith not reason, this same idea became the prevalent pattern in Western

Jewry also until nowadays. The clear opinion of the authorities and even the

great saints of Chasidut that one needs to combine Faith and reason has been

forgotten. Rabbi Nachman held Faith was the main thing, but he clearly held one

needs reason also.

·

Jewish

music from Islamic lands is totally Arabic in character. The yeshivot are the

Jewish version of the monastery, and this is why they only existed in Catholic

lands, not in Russia (except a brief attempt before World War I), or in Islamic

lands. Jewish music of European Jewry is almost an exact duplicate of Ukrainian

music.

·

The

ethical system of the

Duties of the Heart

(which is the basis of the

ethical system of Judaism) is almost identical to the system of Christian

authors who were about 200 years before it. -(Those same authors provided the

Islamic thinkers with their system also. However this isn't to say that Jews

aren't creative or original, but their special power is that of integration

-i.e. the welding together is disparate ideas to come out with a result where

the whole is more and better than the parts.

·

It is

obvious that we see a case of the dialectics of Hegel, i.e., the Jewish people

representing one principle and each non-Jewish nation representing another

principle and their interacting to create a new synthesis which then further

interacts. But the Kabbalah would explain it differently - that the non-Jewish

nations have fallen from their higher root in Tohu [ which comes from the

Divine Name of Numerical value 63] and need  to rise there and the Jewish

people  need to draw that light of Tohu into their vessels.

CONCLUSION

Now

science, I have been saying throughout this book, is on the level of

understanding higher than any religion. However there also the degree of

goodness is dependent on the closeness to the origin, not how high one can

climb. This can however be the subject of debate. Some people may want to put

Judaism at the top others Christianity others science and still others kabbalah.

I don't want to enter that debate for I think it is irrelevant as to determine

one's degree of good or evil or horizontal closeness with God. But it does

determine vertical closeness.]

[Now I

have in this put all systems to the left of the

y

axis and said goodness

refers to closeness to the axis. However it is possible that in fact the column

of infinite light is in the exact center between good and evil, I tend to this

that is the case and that is the reason secular People tend to be closer to God

than religious. In the vertical order I think the vessels of evangelical

Christianity are on foundation of Tohu (since they are from Tohu Chaos which is

a higher level than the vessels of correction) But only if it stays pure for

the higher something is if it falls, it falls lower than other things. The

reason I think this is Jesus being a prelude to redemption contained a higher

vessel than Judaism which remained one rung back. However in terms of the

light, the light of correction-Torah is higher.]

But since

the correction involves taking the broken vessels of tohu and fixing them and

creating one large vessel it would make sense to do that with the different

systems and then drawing into them the light of the name 45 the Torah. Rabbi

Nachman holds that the name 52 is a measure of the entropy of the universe

“Science”

has come to pervade human thought. In the 1800s it undermined the authority of

the Bible, and certainly of the Talmud. It also affected faith in that it

became a rival faith. The objective achievements of “science” along with the

weakness of Christianity to check violence, impressed the common man, and led

him to believe in the new faith of “science”. Respect for it grew in proportion

to its achievements. “Science” has already pervaded every aspect of human life

while religion has failed in its major objective of understanding the basic

meaning of life.

“Science”

became a religion. It became the messiah. It was thought to provide answers for

metaphysical questions and all social problems. [While philosophy became the

proponent of the  idea of the invalidity of all metaphysical questions]It was

thought to provide the standards to regulate human behavior. It has shaped,

molded and formed all modern attitudes more pervasively than any religion. The

elite of society were people with no apparent religious belief. It was thought

that there was no question that science couldn't solve. Any religious belief in

its path was obliterated. [It is interesting to note the year Calculus was

discovered 1666,and the year relativity was discovered on the Jewish calender

was 5,666.And the Book of revelation considers 666 to be the number of the

Beast[i.e., noga]and the Lekutai Moharan considers scientists to be the Head of

the Snakei.e., Kilpat Noga]So clearly Science needs to be connected to fear of

God or it falls into evil.]

Since the

1700's the number of scientists doubled every 15 years. Since the advent of the

cold war and the threat of nuclear or chemical holocausts, the fervor for

science has cooled off. Now it is pursued mainly for the purpose of making a

living. However the effects of its dominance are still here. However, the

religion of “science and progress” has been debunked. So people go back to

different religions for the answers those religions just don't have. However I

hope i have shown in this book a path by which it is possible to combine

religion and science into a cohesive  organic whole being cable of progress

that each one individually wasn't able to do.

The

existence of the Metaphysical realm is now an indisputable fact, if from the

evidence of people like Rabbi israel Abuchatzaira or Benny Hinn, the Christian

evangelists or the miracle workers of India.

Now to

dispute the existence and validity of miracles is to maintain a faith that

contradicts documented facts that have been and continue to be validated every

day.

I believe

that the place where science and faith touch is the world of math, the lowest

sepherah

of the spiritual world and the top sepherah of the physical world. And to show

how there really is no contradiction between faith and science. But each must

remember its proper place, and in what it is qualified to judge, and in what it

is not (Theoretically physics and the Torah predict their own limits).

Also I

hope I have shown the meaning of the Zohar that says “God loves the Divine

trait (sepherah) of Royalty (Mathematics) so much, that he put the workings of

His whole house into her hands, so that all the higher and lower worlds operate

under her principles.”

My final

conclusion is that ONE NEEDS FAITH AND REASON, malchus and chachmah.

These two

sephirot need to revolve around each other and thus produce the energy needed

to make a better world.
