
says in the beginning of

Shaar Ruach HaKodesh

. Here again [as I noted in

the chapter I

deas in Science

], we have the diagonal such that we only

have the trace the things from the top left to the bottom right.

·

Every

level of Torah has a different inner light and meaning. Kabbalah is only the

inner meaning of Torah horizontally, not vertically. This is obvious from books

like the

Nefesh HaChayim

which says that the innerness of the words of

prayer is in the letters themselves not in the kabalistic intentions. Also, the

fact that the Torah says only a third verse can explain contradictions and not

any outside explanation means that the Torah is postulating an inner meaning to

itself in itself, not in the Oral law (since no outside explanations are

permitted). Soloke in number theory if it is consistent, it must be incomplete.

So, inside the Torah there must be a super-Torah. So, I postulate that the

system of Torah in the above diagram from the Rashash continues downwards [and

upwards.]

·

“To come

to the truth of science and Kabbalah is possible by prayer. One should

especially concentrate in the blessing Ahavah Raba before the Shema and in the

blessing ‘give knowledge’, in Shemone Esre.” -

from Reb Shemelke of Nickolsburg.

·

My theory

of learning is thus: When one gets up in the morning he is in a relaxed state

of mind. In my opinion this state is the only time any real learning can be

done. Talking with anyone or even saying ‘hello’ causes a break in the neuron connection

that causes any learning done after that to not be absorbed — for we see that

some things we learn and forget after some time. Yet other things stick inside

one permanently. Therefore, all real learning has to be done in the morning.

[The Baal

Shem Tov hinted to this, for he had a tradition from Achia HaShiloni that the

day one has anger in the morning he won't be able to learn anything after that.]

·

There are

many things in the

yidishkeit

[the practice of the Torah that

theoretically prescribe one way but in practice is otherwise. Sometimes, the

reason is that a person was created in a certain way such that the theory
