
doesn't apply to him. For instance; theoretically, I think it is clear from the

Zohar

that

Tikun Chatzot

is more important than v

esikin

.

However, I believe for many people the need for

Vesikin

outweighs that

of

Chatzot

because of their particular type of soul.

This may

apply also to living in Israel where clearly it it a great thing to all

opinions even to the Rambam; however, there are hidden things that cause it not

to be a

mitzva

.

In fact,

nothing in the Torah can you really know is a

mitzva

until you really

know what is going on in the hidden things. Just judging based on knowledge of

the halacha is worse than not knowing at all — for when one knows nothing then

he may follow his heart. If you ask then, why was the Torah given. The answer is

to teach us to go into our hearts to find God and give us the basic principles

that are really in our hearts and minds but from which we have become

estranged.

This is

the Rambam's opinion that all the commandments are really based on reason and

their force comes from the fact that they are already in our heart, not because

they are written. This applies to learning. For, in theory one should learn

slowly and review and not go further until he gets what he is learning now. But

in fact, in practice, it is better not to do it in that way. The reason is that

is the climbing way from the lower sepherah to the higher one step by step. But

since faith is connected to the crown, if one simply has faith and learns

simply, he comes to the highest knowledge, the knowledge that is higher than

knowledge the crown. This is signified by the way books are set up. For as one

reads from the top of the page to the bottom, he is going through the sephirot

that are containing in the inner logic of the book. Then as he returns, he has

effectively gone from crown to faith and back and this is absorbed into his

soul. [I think one should each day learn only the amount he has set for himself

to learn day by day, no more and no less].

·

Learning
