
over-all patterns. This is largely a subconscious process — and thus Rabbi

Nachman knew that the main absorption of learning is simply by reading —

whether one is aware of his understanding or not.

This is

dependent however on the type of light contained in what one is learning. For

Hebrew only contains inner light. The outer surrounding-light of Hebrew was

lost and has gone into other languages. Thus, for instance, only people that

learn the Bible in English get a feeling of the story line and the inner ideas

contained in the outer light. Another example is for instance the simple

meaning of the words “love your neighbor like yourself,” which has an impact in

English of actual love while in Hebrew the feeling of it is more like a slogan.

Fearing God or loving God are the same, for in Hebrew the connotation is more

like going to the minyan or not turning on a light on Shabbat, while in English

it means loving God.

·

Rabbi

Lutzato hints to the idea that Torah only has power when said forwards and

backwards. The Baal Hatanya explains the root in holiness of non-Hebrew letters

in

Torah Or

(and a hint to this is found in Rabbi Abulafia) and

therefore the same principle applies when learning whether in Hebrew or not.

·

The true

value of learning Torah is only when the intention is to serve God, not to

become a rabbi or use it make a living. When it is learned with the wrong

intention, it of necessity leads one to the wrong conclusions. Rabbis nowadays

can only be rabbis if they have learned the laws of how to kill animals and

taken tests to show that they know that subject well. Therefore, they have used

their Torah knowledge to get a piece of paper that would qualify them for a

position to make money. Therefore, they have learned at least some Torah for

the intent of making money. Therefore, in general it is forbidden to ask a

rabbi for guidance since that guidance will be incorrect. [This fact is hinted

to in the Talmud (Shabbat 139a), that all the troubles of the world come only

because of the judges of Israel)

.

·

[IMAGE: image003.gif]

8:

is the

Kabbalah the Zohar. The continuation downward would be the later kabbalists.

13

: In the the

Rambam's system this would be Philosophy. [The Ramchal would not agree this,

and he in fact disagrees with this whole system anyway which only holds

according to the Rashash's interpretation of the Ari.]
