Chapter 4 – Rabbi Nachman from

Breslov

·

Rabbi

Nachman is the only tzadik that allows himself to be tested experimentally by

making solid statistical predictions easy to test experimentally. E.g. “Shabbat

and the Torah give physical life (not just spiritual).” Although you can say

that the Christians have Jesus which balances that out, but then you could test

it with religious and non-religious Jews. Honesty shouldn't make a difference

for their degree of honesty isn't that different. Now there are lots of

differences by each individual like smoking but or going to Uman for Rosh

Hashanah, but all the variables should average out to give people who keep

Shabbat and learn Torah a longer life.

·2

Rabbi

Nachman's ideas in the Lekutei Moharan are general principles applying to

people, and to show the inter-relationship between the ideas, but not as

advice. This is because any general principal changes dramatically when applied

to the individual and only the individual himself can know how it applies to

him. This is the idea of uniting Correction and Chaos together, for when you

draw the higher light of Chaos into the vessels of Correction you get a

different result than drawing the light of Correction into the vessels of Chaos.

·

(Power) x

(t)/(m)x(a)=x;

i.e., the

distance the sephirot are lifted during the year. This is why it's important to

go to Uman on Rosh Hashanah, for the vertical column of light of power is

there.

·

Rabbi

Nachman hints at the basic principle of Quantum Mechanics, that seeing makes

the vessel (i.e. that observing the photon wave makes it take particle form.

(It's interesting to note that in the Eitz Chayim of Rabbi Issac Luria, mass

(the vessel) is considered dense energy, so apparently he knew intuitively the

mass energy equivalence).

·

In the

Lekutai Moharan we find many things which lead to the divine spirit or

salvation etc. These are independent variables that effect the final result. So

lets say children are dependent on the land of Israel, the succah, prayer etc.

Then, children = A(land of Israel) + B(succah) + C(prayer) + …… + D; where A,

B, C and D are constants. So, if succah and prayer would remain the same, and

the land of Israel would go up by one unit, then children would go up by an

amount of A. We assume here that the effects of the land of Israel and Succah

and prayer are additive, i.e., that the amount that Succah effects them doesn't

depend on the amount that the land of Israel affects them.

We could

use a computer with a statistical package to get the values of the coefficients

(even though it's probable that every person would end up having his own

coefficients). Also, we could use the

t

statistic to test the

possibility that one of these things has no effect on children. To prove to the

doubters, who say that none of these things have an effect we could use the

F

statistic. You could do this with every chapter in the Lekutai Moharan and thus

come out with some results for all the coefficients, which could serve for some

practical guidance in ones life. [For it is likely that people’s coefficients

don't vary that much one from one another.]

Without

knowing the value of the coefficients, it’s impossible to know how much each

variable effects the situation, and since doing one

mitzvah

(commandment) invariably takes time and effort from another one, one can verify

what he should be doing in order to achieve his goals. (Even though you may

have different coefficients than everybody else, it’s unlikely that yours will

be significantly different than your immediate peer group, so if you have a

general idea of the value of the statistics you can know what you should

emphasize without having to waste years experimenting with things that may have

little effect on your overall happiness). Even though it is true that much

depends on your own trust in God and other variables, so you could ask how is

it possible to reduce your personal happiness and success in so many areas as

the Lekutai Moharan does to a simple mathematical formula.

The

answer is that much of one's own trust in God can be determined by his peer

group, for no righteous or great person appears in a vacuum. Baba Sali in Morocco

was surrounded by a spirit of fear of God. Spinoza and Rabbi Moshe Chayim

Lutzato were deeply affected by the atmosphere of philosophy in Amsterdam (why

else would Rabbi Lutzato be the sole saint to create a coherent philosophical

analysis of the

Kabbalah

, very similar to what Spinoza did for

philosophy in general).

·

By doing

repentance on a sin you get some Divine inspiration. Then, you do repentance

again since you realize your first repentance wasn't good enough in accordance

with your increased awareness of God's greatness. The second time you repent,

your repentance is better so you get a higher degree of inspiration, i.e.,

inspiration times some number k which is more than one. The third time you

repent you increase your previous inspiration [which was (inspiration)(k)] by a

factor of k again

—

since your inspiration was increased by by that amount. So you get

(inspiration) (k

2

)

If you do that n times, your inspiration will be (inspiration) (

k

2

). Now

back to the beginning. At the time you did the second repentance you also do a

repentance on your first repentance since your realize that it wasn't complete.

The first time you repent on your first repentance you get some inspiration.

The second time you get (inspiration)(k). The next time you get (inspiration)

(k

2

). Now, at the time you do your third repentance on the sin, and

the second repentance on the first repentance, you do your first repentance on

the second repentance.

So at the

time you have done this process n times you have Inspiration(kn) + inspiration (kn-1)

+…+ inspiration. If you take the limit as you do this an infinite number of

times you get the  Integral(inspiration) (kn)] dn = (Inspiration) (kn)/(ln k)

where the ln k signifies the lower dot of the

aleph

[the Divine name 52]

and the dividing sign is the line dividing the

aleph

and kn is the top

dot of the

aleph

[the Divine name 161].

·

The way

of learning of Rabbi Nachman includes two different points. One that just by

saying the words the understanding comes into the mind. The other is to learn

in order without skipping around. My idea of saying the words backwards comes

from the Ari and the aal Shem Tov who have different unifications based on that

idea, and the Ramchal explains in his

New Zohar

that the saying

of the words backwards brings the light back to the source -- so it's like

sewing -- where it is helpful to go backwards also. The practical way of

implementing this is to have a place marker in the several books that one needs

to learn and have a certain fixed amount that one does of each one each day.

·

In that

same lesson in the

Lekutai Moharan

, vol 1. chapt. 6, we see that the

amount that the honor of God is increased depends on how much the person has

changed from a state of sin to the state of good and the change one has of

greater honor to lesser, i.e. the honor of God isn't dependent on one's being

good but rather on change from a lower to a higher state, and similarly there

is a need for an active lessening of ones own honor. Therefore the proper

relationship is

:

Honor of God =

D

State of goodness

is that

goodness or

goodness] /

D

Self-honor

.

Since

these are two independent variables as we take the limit as

DC®

0

,

D

y®

0 we we

have:<???> <Clear up the last paragraph please?>

†

[IMAGE: image051.gif]

The

general solution of this linear partial differential equation will contain two

arbitrary functions. I think they are the finding of one's proper partner as

mentioned in Lekutai Moharan [vol 2] and becoming included in the Higher Man

who sits on the Throne which is the result of doing the higher and lower

repentance of chap. 6. This would explain why these two things result from the

higher and lower repentance mentioned in this chapter [i.e., chapter 6 of the

Lekutai Moharan]

·

If one

has masturbated he should say the 10 psalms, 16, 32, 41, 42, 57, 77, 90, 105,

137, 150 and immerse himself in a natural body of water all on that same day as

Rabbi Nachman said.

·

To

sweeten the judgments, I would recommend having in every city at least one

person learning Zohar, Lekutei Moharan and other kabbalah books in such a way

that when he is tired there is another to take his place and continue from the

place he stopped. [See Ginzay HaRamchal where I got this idea from.]

This

would be good in particular by the graves of the righteous where the lower

level of their soul hovers. For the individual can say the ten psalms of Rabbi

Nachman,

16, 32, 41, 42, 59, 77, 90, 105, 137, 150

which are on the

level of the crown, then the Song of songs on the level of wisdom, then Numbers

ch. 28, on the level of understanding than Exodus chapt. 28:15 to 28:30, then

Exodus 26:7 to 26:15; the part about the increase in the prayer book, the two

blessings that Moses blessed the tribes at the end of Deuteronomy and the

divine chariot in Ezikiel.

·

