Chapter 4 – Rabbi Nachman from

Breslov

·

Rabbi

Nachman is the only tzadik that allows himself to be tested experimentally by

making solid statistical predictions easy to test experimentally. E.g. “Shabbat

and the Torah give physical life (not just spiritual).” Although you can say

that the Christians have Jesus which balances that out, but then you could test

it with religious and non-religious Jews. Honesty shouldn't make a difference

for their degree of honesty isn't that different. Now there are lots of

differences by each individual like smoking but or going to Uman for Rosh

Hashanah, but all the variables should average out to give people who keep

Shabbat and learn Torah a longer life.

·2

Rabbi

Nachman's ideas in the Lekutei Moharan are general principles applying to

people, and to show the inter-relationship between the ideas, but not as

advice. This is because any general principal changes dramatically when applied

to the individual and only the individual himself can know how it applies to

him. This is the idea of uniting Correction and Chaos together, for when you

draw the higher light of Chaos into the vessels of Correction you get a

different result than drawing the light of Correction into the vessels of Chaos.

·

(Power) x

(t)/(m)x(a)=x;

i.e., the

distance the sephirot are lifted during the year. This is why it's important to

go to Uman on Rosh Hashanah, for the vertical column of light of power is

there.

·

Rabbi

Nachman hints at the basic principle of Quantum Mechanics, that seeing makes

the vessel (i.e. that observing the photon wave makes it take particle form.

(It's interesting to note that in the Eitz Chayim of Rabbi Issac Luria, mass

(the vessel) is considered dense energy, so apparently he knew intuitively the

mass energy equivalence).

·

In the

Lekutai Moharan we find many things which lead to the divine spirit or

salvation etc. These are independent variables that effect the final result. So

lets say children are dependent on the land of Israel, the succah, prayer etc.

Then, children = A(land of Israel) + B(succah) + C(prayer) + …… + D; where A,

B, C and D are constants. So, if succah and prayer would remain the same, and

the land of Israel would go up by one unit, then children would go up by an

amount of A. We assume here that the effects of the land of Israel and Succah

and prayer are additive, i.e., that the amount that Succah effects them doesn't
