
depend on the amount that the land of Israel affects them.

We could

use a computer with a statistical package to get the values of the coefficients

(even though it's probable that every person would end up having his own

coefficients). Also, we could use the

t

statistic to test the

possibility that one of these things has no effect on children. To prove to the

doubters, who say that none of these things have an effect we could use the

F

statistic. You could do this with every chapter in the Lekutai Moharan and thus

come out with some results for all the coefficients, which could serve for some

practical guidance in ones life. [For it is likely that people’s coefficients

don't vary that much one from one another.]

Without

knowing the value of the coefficients, it’s impossible to know how much each

variable effects the situation, and since doing one

mitzvah

(commandment) invariably takes time and effort from another one, one can verify

what he should be doing in order to achieve his goals. (Even though you may

have different coefficients than everybody else, it’s unlikely that yours will

be significantly different than your immediate peer group, so if you have a

general idea of the value of the statistics you can know what you should

emphasize without having to waste years experimenting with things that may have

little effect on your overall happiness). Even though it is true that much

depends on your own trust in God and other variables, so you could ask how is

it possible to reduce your personal happiness and success in so many areas as

the Lekutai Moharan does to a simple mathematical formula.

The

answer is that much of one's own trust in God can be determined by his peer

group, for no righteous or great person appears in a vacuum. Baba Sali in Morocco

was surrounded by a spirit of fear of God. Spinoza and Rabbi Moshe Chayim

Lutzato were deeply affected by the atmosphere of philosophy in Amsterdam (why

else would Rabbi Lutzato be the sole saint to create a coherent philosophical

analysis of the

Kabbalah

, very similar to what Spinoza did for

philosophy in general).

·

By doing

repentance on a sin you get some Divine inspiration. Then, you do repentance

again since you realize your first repentance wasn't good enough in accordance

with your increased awareness of God's greatness. The second time you repent,

your repentance is better so you get a higher degree of inspiration, i.e.,

inspiration times some number k which is more than one. The third time you

repent you increase your previous inspiration [which was (inspiration)(k)] by a
