
Section IV - Ideas

Chapter 1 –

Ideas in Kabbalah - The Song of the Soul

Introduction

Science

and Kabbalah are two distinct fields with apparently no relationship between

them. However here is my intention to show how each can illuminate the other as

long as each keeps to its respective parameters.

Mathematics

is the lowest

sepherah

of the spiritual world and the highest of the

physical, as Rabbi Luria says “the essence of numbers is in the sepherah of

Royalty”, so its’ laws govern both disciplines. Rabbi Issac Luria uses a

physical model to describe the spiritual reality (as per the Eitz Chayim).

In this

section I attempt to show the mathematical principles of this reality. Further,

as physics needs mathematical models to clarify itself, so the spiritual world

needs physical models to make clear its meaning. These I also will attempt to

show but bear in mind these are different worlds-- parallel but different, and

each lower world provides a model for what is above it and is like a reflection

in a pond. I think that every mathematical model has a corresponding spiritual

and a corresponding physical reality. Now

know

,

many will object that the formalist philosophy of mathematics claims that math

only deals with abstract symbols that may or may not have a relation to

reality. But this simply isn't true. Reality itself seems to be based on math,

and mathematicians know this. They use the theory of numbers as an aid to gain

knowledge about formal systems, and thus they show that in truth they believe

that numbers are actually a part of reality.

·

Four

types of flux (or Divine light) flow into the spiritual empty space: The Divine

names

72, 63, 45, 52

, i.e., gravitational, strong, weak, and

electro-magnetic.

·

The four

worlds of Emanation, Creation, Formation and Action correspond to the four

types of space: metric space, normed space, Banach space, and Hilbert space -

where for each different types of operations are valid.

[The Ari

is clear that in AK even ideas of spiritual space don't apply so he is

apparently talking about a spiritual space where the concept of distance

dissolves — Isn't that Tensor space?]

In

general, the Kabbalah seems to deal only with totally arithmetic operations

[gematriot], except it hints to the other types of space only occasionally,

e.g., when the Ramak brings down that:

é

2

+ +

ä

2

å

2

+

ä

2

= 186 =

place [makom]

which

indicates that this is a 4-d place, and that a norm comes out to be the square

root of 186... The 5 forms (partzufim) have their origin in the 5 flows from

the name 72, 63, 45, 52, which are Gravitational, Strong, Weak,

Magnetism-Electricity.

·

The

relationship between the circular sephirot and the straight ones is that the

10-component curvature tensor of the circular sephirot is proportional to the

10-component energy-stress tensor of the straight ones.

(The Eitz

Chayim seems clear that the basic existence of vessels, or what we call ‘matter’

is in the straight sephirot, and matter is best represented by the

energy-stress tensor).

The

constant of proportionality should be decided in a way that the normal 613

commandments for Jews and 7 commandments for the children of Noah should be

reproduced under normal circumstances of weak fields and small velocities

[i.e., that these basic laws of human conduct are invariable in all frames of

reference and it is possible to understand their application in all situations

if we can know the constants and exact formula, for, as of now I understand

that the laws of the Torah are eternal and unchanging yet their application is

unknown in many circumstances.]

The 10

components of the energy-stress tensor in the spiritual

realm

which

describe the distribution and flux of energy and linear momentum of

every sepherah or soul. This tensor follows the four laws of continuity which

are from the four letters of the Ineffable Name. The ten components of the

Einstein tensor (the rearrangement of the Ricci tensor) which deals with the

curvature of spiritual and physical space-time is the source of the

gravitational field.

The

energy stress tensor describes the 10 straight sephirot and the Einstein vector

is the 10 circular sephirot - Einstein figured out that they must be

proportional - I'm just saying the same thing for the sephirot like he said for

the vectors.

What this

means is that the spiritual powers of the commandments and the ten statements

as they condense into the physical realm become the energy stress tensor and

the Einstein vector tensor. [That is, the commandments are a measure of the

spiritual mass-energy (vessels and light) energy density and momentum of a

person], this involves an approach to the sephirot different than the regular

one, for here we are saying that the first 9 describe the components of the 3-d

tensor which traditionally would be just 6 sephirot.

Thus,

there are twenty amino acids which correspond to the twenty symbols of TNT

which correspond to the twenty components of the curvature of four dimensional

space, which correspond to the twenty components of the Einstein tensor and the

mass energy tensor that have to be proportional according to Einstein. [See

page 533 of Gödel, Escher, Bach].

Also,

there are ten equations that describe a fluid in four and ten quantities that

characterize that fluid corresponding to the ten sephirot of yosher and the ten

of igulim...The correlations thus;

1)

I am the Lord p = p (n, s)

2)

Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy

God in vain, T = (n, s)

3)

Remember the Sabbath day to keep it Holy, d

r=[r+

p]/n+nTds

the first law of thermodynamics [conservation of energy]

4)

Honor thy father and thy mother, m

=(r+

p)/n

5)

Thou shalt not kill, dn/d

t=Ñ

u

n

6)

Thou shalt not commit adultery; ds/

dt=0

7)

Thou shalt not steal;(r+p)

Ñ

u=-g+u

Ä

u

·Ñ

p

8)

Thou shalt not bear false witness; [same]

9)

Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s house;

[same]

10)

Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s wife, u

·

u = -1

The

proportionality of the ten components of the Einstein tensor and the energy

stress tensor are parallel to the ten sephirot of the point of wisdom and the

ten of the point of understanding. However, there must be another ten-component

tensor that we are not aware of since there is also the ten sephirot of the

point of the crown which hasn't been accounted for. [I am assuming the 6 sephirot

of Zeir and the one of

malchut

relate to just the physical manifestation

of the higher points.]

The

question, however, is how is the breaking of the vessels reflected in the

physical realm? Is this the law of uncertainty that will be rectified after the

revival of the dead? How can a law that is so much in the fabric of the

universe be rectified? Don't we correct the breaking of the vessels every day

by prayer, and certainly the law of uncertainty doesn't change from day to day.

The answer apparently is that this law also has its roots in the circular sephirot

which will be united with the straight ones at the revival, but not change

their essential character.

·

A more

traditional approach would be that in 5-d spiritual space the three dimensions

are 6 lower sephirot as per the directions of Rabbi Luria for the lulav, (we'll

call the entire kindness and anti-kindness (power) direction just by k, beauty

and anti-beauty (foundation) by b, and victory and anti-victory (splendor) by

v. Then crown and anti-crown (royalty) we'll call c, and Wisdom and

understanding by w. Thus, the stress tensor is:

T = itk + jtb + ktv + ltw + mtc. (This

involves more than ten components).

·

The Empty

space should be limited to some dimensions, not infinite dimensional, and the

straight light coming down should be one dimension less. The reason I think it

has to be finite dimensional is so that a description of it will be necessary

and sufficient. Only to God is the near the same as the far but as we describe

distances and time even in a spiritual way the description has to be confined

to some limited number of dimensions to have any meaning.

·

The empty

space rotates on its axis and revolves around a center point and one outside

itself and this produces the flux's that enters it. The rotation causes it to

be in the form of an ellipsoid i.e.

X

2

/ a

2

+ y

2

/ b

2

+ z

2

/ c

2

= 1.

·

The empty

space has the quality of hiding the light of God, and every level of hiding

hides the previous level so one doesn't know that God is hidden and thinks he

is close to God. And that level is hidden by another level in a continuous

progression. Each level is a different level of darkness. The character of

God's Infinite Light is that as it progresses further down through the darkness

it illuminates one more level of hiding. Every higher level of light that comes

into the world defuses a greater degree of darkness.

·

Since the empty space is rotating it

must have an ergosphere.

·

The

singularity in the center of the empty space is connected to the light

surrounding the space through an outside dimension.

·

The ten

circular sephirot are actually energy waves emanating from the vibration of the

roof of the empty space. The dot in the middle also vibrates and gives off its

own circular sephirot. So actually Faith, Sexual purity etc., are actually

energy waves. Every individual gives them off by the degree he holds on to

every trait.

·

The area

under the singularity of the infinite light is negative time, to the right is

positive space, to the left negative space from where the worlds of negative

probabilities emerge. Imaginary space is the opposite side.

·

The

center of the empty space which is the singularity of the infinite light gives

off waves like a drop falling on a lake which are its circular sephirot as

opposed to the circular sephirot which enter the empty space from above.

·

What

makes the world line of the circular sephirot [the Igulim] tilt away from the

vertical is the speed they rotate through the empty space. Since they rotate at

speeds faster than light, they have horizontal world lines. The circular form

of those sephirot is due to the fact they are traveling in a time field which

causes them to bend, just like an electron traveling at an angle to a magnetic

field. (The straight sephirot are time-like [They travel slower than the speed

of the light, so the Eitz Chayim refers to them as if they were stationary

which only means that they are an inertial frame of reference) and the circular

sephirot are space-like.)

·

Since the

empty space is finite without boundaries, and in the opinion of the Ramchal it

refers to time and space one can travel indefinitely in one direction in time

as we are in fact doing and find ourselves at the beginning of time at the top

of the empty space.

·<???>

The level of reaching and not reaching

is given by:

[IMAGE: image011.gif]

[the regular wave

equation]

The

reason I am saying that it is a derivative is that the Eitz Chayim says at the

very beginning of his book that the division of the

sephirot

continues

indefinitely. (However, the Rashash seems to have a different opinion.)

Y is the

distance from the light to the top of the empty space.

[IMAGE: image012.gif]

is the distance to the

side of the wave of the Infinite Light as it vibrates.

[IMAGE: image013.gif]

is the velocity of the

wave which is

[IMAGE: image014.gif]

for light:

c=(?)(T/r).

(

T is the

tension of the empty space (?) is the density.)

·

If

f

is a regular mapping of a good deed on a surface of the soul or onto the

surface of the empty space, then for every point there is a coordinate patch

[IMAGE: image015.gif]

on the soul such that

[IMAGE: image015.gif]

a coordinate patch on S.

·

Resistance

in the higher sephirot of emanation is a characteristic of the vessels of the sephirot

without which they couldn't shine out their own light (they would still allow

the infinite light of God to radiate from within them, but with resistance they

form a R-L-C circuit, and they emanate their own unique frequency of light).

The frequency of the light coming into the empty space is infinite, and only

lessened by its coming into the circular sephirot.

·

<???>

Each

sephirah is a sphere only in its own dimension it's a hollow cylinder with

respect to the higher one, like a circle is only closed in flat-land but with

respect to the three dimensional world it is hollow. Thus, the sephirot are

closed with regard to observer in spiritual 4-d space but a long cylinder from

the aspect of 5-d space. The probability density of the vessel of each sephirah

varies inversely as the square of the distance from the center since density of

(x, y, z) = k / r

2

so M=

òòò

(x,y,z)dV = 4kr

unit

amot. The ability of the righteous like Bava Sali to see beyond the confines of

space is because they are spiritually raised to spiritual 5 space where they

can see space and time laid out before them as a map.

·<???>

The

surrounding lights of the sephirot (Chayah and Yechidah) are fields, not lights

per say. The light from understanding (Binah) is related to the electromagnetic

force, in that the

hashmal

outer covering of Zeir and Nukbah come from

it. Binah is composed of higher and lower levels, as the Ari goes into at great

length.

B=

0

(H+M) (B

is the entire induction field of Binah, Binah Ilaah (The higher Understanding)

is the magnetic field H, Tvunah is the density M). For the Chashmal

(electricity) to emanate from Binah, Binah has to be rotating in relation to

Zeir and Nukbah (the two sephirot of Beauty and Royalty)

·

The

simple explanation of the light that is left in the vessels as the main light

goes back up is that it is like light that shines on the surface of something

and the surface heats up because of the energy that got absorbed. The question

is what in the world is the second light that Rabbi Luria says is left there?!

(I would suggest that it refers to the photo-electric effect.)

·

The 22

Hebrew letters have numerical value, but they also represent functions.

Specifically,

the 10 letters which represent the 10 sephirot, t”vdyps t”rpB d”

g

b s”ma

are

representative of 10 functions, depending on what world you are in: In

Emanation of math they are the Gamma function, the Beta function, the Bessel

function, Fourier Integral, Legendre function, the error function, the

complementary error function, the sine integral, the cosine integral, Fresnel

function, Fresnel cosine function.

·

The

normal distribution coming from

sephiros deYosher

is the reason the

light of

nekudim

is found mainly in front of Adam Kadmon, but there is

some slight probability of the light being found elsewhere, and so we find some

light in the back of the light of .

·

It's

clear that the Vessels were broken because of there being too much energy

inside the vessel (so if there was let's say a lower sephirah's light it would

be o.k.). So, when before he says the vessels weren't fixed as one male and

female it would seem he means that if the vessels would have been fixed as one

there would have been strength to hold the light. However, why in the higher sephirot

weren't they broken? It would seem that this is because the light of the Crown

was made to hold its very intense light so the rest of the light couldn't break

it. They all have the same wavelength, when they are up there in the Crown, but

the lower light has a smaller amplitude, so the amplitudes combine but don't

break the vessel since its made for that wavelength. But the problem with this

is that shouldn't the vessel break at their own resonance frequency? Perhaps

the

nekudim

are spiritual neutrons that are absorbed into the vessels

and cause them to break apart by atomic fission. Its not that they break by the

force of the impact. The breaking of the vessels was a chain reaction. The

energy given off was (The mass of the sephirot)

[IMAGE: image007.gif]

(The

speed of the Infinite Light) ²

·

The

higher worlds of the Kabbalah are not higher in the conventional sense but rather

at a 90° angle to our 3D space. As the electrons (the letters of the alphabet)

flow through the sephirot an outer magnetic field is generated. It would seem

the physical universe is surrounded by Formation

outside, in terms of the

circular sephirot

(

in plain 3D terms) -- but there the world is

spiritual, and that “up” also means in one more direction up in terms of the

straight sephirot. In the middle of the empty space, it would seem there is a

singularity, the most inner point of the circular sephirot, for as they

progress towards the center, they become more physical until you get a type of

Higgs Field that transforms spiritual energy into physical. The Eitz Chayim is

all about the straight sephirot and doesn't deal with the circular ones which

are the spiritual root of non-Jews, and the fields of the physical universe.

·

The Schwarzschild

Radius of the empty space is:

[IMAGE: image016.gif]

·

It seems

from this that as God puts more energy into the empty space the radius gets

bigger. The singularity of infinite light in the center of the empty space is

what causes it to be curved. The outer light surrounding the straight sephirot

is the magnetic field from the name 52 surrounding a current-bearing conductor

of the light of the name 45. The circular sephirot are rotating in an external

magnetic field and that is how they create the electric current of the straight

sephirot, as the sages said, “there is a sphere that circles around in the

world”.

(The

Circular sephirot are 3­D spheres rotating sideways into the 4

th

spiritual dimension). (Since they are accelerating, they give out gravitational

waves also, which also affects the straight sephirot. Obviously, the broken

vessels give out gravitational waves also as they fall and later rise). (The

straight sephirot have to be electric since they are straight and don't make a

complete circle like a magnetic field). This leaves us with figuring out how

the next 3 forces relate to the names 63 and 72 and this certainly seems to

imply that the straight lines of gravity are produced by some rotating outer

field of some higher force surrounding the 3 dimensions of the universe.

·

The

universe operates like a pentode

[11]

,

and this explains the reason for the grid between Emanation and Creation (the

suppressor grid) and between Creation and Formation (the screen grid) and

between Formation and the physical universe (the control grid) -- the main idea

is because the current is AC (i.e., reaching and not reaching as it explains at

length in the Eitz Chayim). You use a grid to make a change in the plate

current (the source of the light) by small changes in the grid potential that

is caused by mitzvot and good deeds. [There is one problem with this and that

is that the current shouldn't be affected by distance, so how can I explain the

fact that the Eitz Chayim says distance and resistance are factors.]

·

The wavelength of the light of each

sephirah is

[IMAGE: image017.gif]

·

When the

string of the vessel of the Crown is plucked, it emits a wave with harmonics.

The frequency of the crown is 10 times the frequency of Royalty. The problem

was that all the harmonics were above that of the Crown, so the lower vessels

broke. The correction was when the string of Royalty was plucked and the higher

sephirot were its harmonics, so the energy was less.

·

The

uncertainties of the world of

akudim

(the wave pattern of the

sepherot

,

literally “streaked”) come in mathematical wave form in probability space.

·

The

distance between the sephirah of the crown and wisdom is (2-1) (r) if r

is the radius of the empty space. (As you continue down you keep the same

order). (As the empty space expands and contracts the radius varies, so at one

period in time one might be able to rise from one level to the next easily since

there is just a small distance to go and at other periods in history or in

one's own life it might be very difficult). (As we progress toward the

singularity in the center, humanity goes from one level to the next very

quickly. I know many people have wondered why it took humanity such a long time

to make any slight bit of progress in the olden days while now it seems every

10 years, we enter into a new century. (And every century is 1000 years of the

old time). However, the expanding of the empty space caused a spiritual red

shift of the light as it came down to us. One of the reasons that the light

that we receive in the physical universe is much denser and more physical than

the spiritual light in the higher worlds is that the light has gone through the

whole empty space to reach us, and that empty space is expanding so there is a

red shift in the frequency of the light. So, this explains why to the Ari there

is a change is the essential nature of the light as it travels a distance in

the higher worlds.

·

The top

of the spiritual empty space is the top of the future light cone. The world

inside it is made of time-like directions. We are going down in it because from

the aspect of Einstein's equations (time is a negative coordinate) the right

side is positive space the left is negative space - where the particles of

negative probabilities emerge from. The bottom side of the singularity of the

infinite light is negative time:

[IMAGE: image018.gif]

·

The

orientation of the sephirot is either right handed, left handed or zero spin.

Their position in regard to each other is as is stated in the Eitz Chayim,

however they also have spin. The Right hand Sephirot have right-hand spin, the

middle none, and the left have left-hand spin. Splendor and Eternity have half

integer spin and are thus subject to Fermi Statistics. Kindness and Power have

whole integer spin and are thus subject to Einstein-Bose Statistics. One result

of this is that any flow coming from the right-handed sephirot like kindness or

Wisdom will have integer-spin like Photons or in general any particles whose

exchange generates some interaction. This is a problem, for bosons carry all

the interactions -- so aren't there left-handed interactions from the sephirot

of power? The answer is that there are only four interactions, from the names

72 (right), 63 (left), 45 (right), 52 (left), and the four are always symmetric

until some Higgs field breaks the symmetry.

·

Since

Royalty and Beauty are rotating on their own axis, they emit wave radiation

from of the four types of waves (72, 63, 45, 52). Since Royalty rotates around Beauty

they consist of a closed system, and give off Name-72 waves, which involves a

loss of their energy of motion and rest energy. Therefore, they need to receive

more energy into order to keep up the oscillation. (If not, they just float

away as name 72 radiation waves.

·

The

singularity in the center of the empty space is a white hole not surrounded by

an event horizon, which spews out spiritual mass and energy, not subject to the

laws of spiritual physics. It has its own circular and straight sephirot

outside of it. Its surface is our four dimensional world. The inside I think is

a different type of continuation of the process of the evolving of the

spiritual worlds in the regular empty space.

†

[IMAGE: image019.jpg]

†

[IMAGE: image020.jpg]

TNT is Typographical Number Theory.

·

Since the

whole universe is analytic it can be expanded into a Taylor series (that's why

one needs to get married i.e., in order to continue the series.) The circular sephirot

are analytic but the straight sephirot are not. But the bottom seven sephirot

of the generality of the worlds [all taken as one] are analytic because they

are like cylinders.

·

Sephirot

are a vector space since the operations of addition and multiplication apply to

them. Multiplication by the sephirot is what the

kabbalah

calls mating,

for addition is just adding two things [of the same essence] together, while

mating is applying the value of one thing to the value of another in order to

come out with a greater (or lesser) result.

·

The

circular sephirot are analytic since they have a derivative everywhere. I don't

know about the straight ones since even though they are called straight they

are formed like cylinders.

·

The Torah

is linearly independent, i.e.,

b

1

r

1

e

1

i

1

s

1

h

1

i

1

t

1

+ b

2

a

2

r

2

e

2

+

… = The

numerical value of the verse.

This is

the intent of the sages when they say, “there is no freedom except for Torah.”

With the first verse of the Torah, it is possible to show this even in the form

it is in in the Torah, for it can be put into Echelon form:

[IMAGE: image021.gif]

The

linearly independent solutions are related to one homogeneous differential

equation of order six. Apparently, that is the equation of the Creation.

The

torsion of the verse has to be more than zero which gives us a right-handed

system of sephirot since the vectors described are independent.

So Sciy

i

(x)

1

0 for all

c: And so, the Wronskian determinant doesn't vanish at the origin. So, the

torsion

1

0 So we have either right handed or left handed sephirot

since,

[IMAGE: image022.gif]

However,

the general system according to the Kabbalah is that the top row of the matrix

is the beginning letters of every word of the verse, the middle row of the

matrix is the middle letters, and the last row is the last letters of each

word. So, for example the first verse is a 3 times 7 matrix.

·

The

reason the world is 3 dimensional is that it is built by the Divine name 72

which consists of three letters for each name which are each orthogonal to each

other. [This is based on the verse “the world is built by kindness”. The name

72 corresponds to the Divine trait of Kindness.]

··

The 4

times 4 matrix of the four Divine names 72 63 45 52 is:

[IMAGE: image023.gif]

The matrix corresponding to the name

161 143 and 151 is

[IMAGE: image024.gif]

The

associated

eigenvalue

and

eigenvector

are determined by

[IMAGE: image025.gif]

or in

other words

[IMAGE: image026.gif]

X is the

eigenvector

.

[IMAGE: image027.gif]

is the

eigenvalue

.

Actually, the intentions of the Ari in general are matrices. This fact makes

the otherwise very enigmatic

Gate of Divine Spirit

a little bit more

understandable.

·

The name

of the three verses, “He traveled…, He came …, He turned” are a cubical matrix

with each side of the cube the letters of each verse.

·

The order

of the higher worlds is:

INNER WORLDS

OUTER WORLDS

EMANATION

FORMATION

CREATION

PHYSICAL UNIVERSE

Emanation

Creation

Formation

Physical

E

C

F

P

Crown

Crown

Crown

Crown

Cr

Cr

Cr

Cr

Wisdom/

Understanding

W.U

W.U

W.U

W.U.

W.U.

W.U.

W.U.

Beauty/

Royalty

B.R.

B.R.

B.R.

B.R.

B.R.

B.R.

B.R.

This is a

close up of one sepherah.

†

[IMAGE: image028.gif]

The

metric here is given by the divine name of the four letters:

[IMAGE: image029.gif]

The

Divine name, which indicates that God is the Force of forces is “God”, or

“Elohim”. The five letters of this name correspond to the five components of

the equation for the total force on any specific volume, oyhla = F(total) =

n cosTds. The basic three letters are the basic name

which is the basic equation with the dot after the

lamed

indicating the

dot product and the mistakes the word plural and thus indicates the sum of all

the forces which is the integral sign. In its inner essence this equation is

the divine name of the four letters

hvhy.

The

h

is the

ds, the small surface, the

y

is the tension, the

v

is the

normal to the surface and the first

h

is the

cos

of the angle between the tension and the normal to

the surface.

Now this

is the scheme of Creation as we can see on every levelfrom this diagram of the

the Genetic Code, the Godel Code together with the order of the higher worlds

and the

formula for the curvature of space -time.

†

R

lk

¨¨

q

=



qli

/ X

k

+ 

q kp



pil

-



qki

/



x

l

-



qlp



pki

[IMAGE: image030.gif]

The same

system of four levels corresponding to the four worlds emanation creation

formation physical which are the four letters of the Divine name.

The way

one levels corresponds to the next is by the strange spiral[Strange Loop in the

language of Godel Escher Bach]That is how we travel through the Spiritual to

Idea to will to the Godel Code to the Genetic Code etc from level of hiearchy

to other level.It may be possible from this to get some hint as to solve some

of the mysteries that are still unknown.EG it seems the fact that this

describes the amino acids only statistically is related to the fact that nature

on its most fundamental level can be described only by statistics.

·

The

musical notes on top of the letters in the Torah are indexes of integration for

Emanation. But, since each letter corresponds to a different type of function

depending on what world you are in, the significance of the notes for each

world isn't clear to me. (This idea of the same thing signifying different

things depending on what world you are in isn't my idea. A college professor

from Texas mentioned it to me concerning the Lekutai Moharan)

·

The

normal representation of the commandments is a square matrix (613 x 613).

tefilin

of tefilin + shabat of tefilin + tzitzit of tefilin + ……

shabat of

shabat+tefilin of Shabat + ...

Then,

after the correction the order switched, and you take the transpose of the

above matrix. So that tefilin becomes only tefilin, i.e.,

tefilin of tefilin

+ tefilin of Shabat + Tefilin of Tzitzit + …

This is

actually the opinion of Beit Shamai according to Rabbi Yochanan at the

beginning of Pesachim.

·

The

commandments of the Bible acting on a complex finite dimensional inner product

soul, can be represented by a triangular matrix relative to an orthonormal

basis of the soul. [The determinate of that matrix will give you the volume of

light it contains. Now, this explains why in some places in the Eitz Chayim the

higher worlds are represented as square and even after the revival of the dead

the order will be the transpose of the present order. While in other places the

order is like a triangle like this.

[IMAGE: image031.gif]

*a = 72

of 72 crown.

*b =

Wisdom of 72 in the crown of 63.

*c = Understanding

of 72 in the wisdom of 63 in the crown of emanation.

*d =

Beauty and royalty in understanding of 63 of AK in wisdom and understanding.

*A =

crown of 63

*B =

wisdom of 63 in crown of emanation

*C =

understanding of 63 inside of wisdom and understanding of emanation

[horizontally speaking]

*D =

Beauty and royalty of 63 of AK inside of Israel and the lower understanding of

emanation until the bottom.

*E=crown

of emanation

*F=wisdom

and understanding of emanation.

*G=Israel

and the lower understanding of emanation.

*H=Beauty

and Royalty of Emanation. The right column is all 72, the middle is all 63 and

the left is emanation.

·

There are

ten empty spaces, and each is divisible into ten, which are divisible into ten

ad infinitum. Each one is on a different plane, i.e., the three dimensional

sphere is surrounded by a 4-D sphere which is surrounded etc. Each has its own

surrounding sephirot in its own dimension. For instance, our empty space is

surrounded by Royalty of the Infinite One which is surrounded etc. Like this:

[IMAGE: image032.gif]

A = The

empty space.

b = Top

of the empty space, circular Royalty of the Infinite One.

c =

Square royalty of the Infinite One. This is what the Kabbalists of the Middle

Ages call the Royalty of the Infinite One. However, I haven't seen the Ari

mention it.

d =

Circular foundation.

e =

Square foundation. The square sephirot are the source of the linear sephirot in

the empty space. The lines coming down from the top to the center are the roots

of the sephirot in the shape of an Eagle.

The lines

of the left side are the root of the sephirot in the shape of a lion. The right

is the root of the Bull. The lines coming up to the center are the sephirot of

Adam Kadmon, the sephirot in the shape of a person, which is the general

subject of the Eitz Chayim. The time-axis is negative, so to get the regular

order we are used to you have to turn it upside down. This, it seems, is the

root of the Baal Hatanya's idea of equating

tohu

[chaos] with the angles

of the Divine Chariot.

The idea

of turning the whole thing over is Rabbi Nachman's of man ruling over the

angels.

[I know

there are many times when it seems the Baal Hatanya has no source in the

Kabbalah but with patience, I have usually found some source for him. For

instance, it bothered me a long time that he equated the higher Unification

with the higher knowledge. Now that has no way of working with the Drush HaDaat

at the end of the Eitz Chayim. Eventually, I discovered that the commentary on

the Rashash, the Shemen Sasson, says Drush HaDaat is only the generality of the

Emanation and in fact doesn't work with the specifics, and that the higher

Israel and Understanding are half of The Father and the

Mother

.]

The ten

traits of the five basic sephirot are bases for those sephirot. i.e., they are

linearly independent.

·

The Zohar

says there are nine palaces above the sephirot that are not light or spirit or

souls. They are, in the spiritual realm, the equivalent of the nine components

of the force-density tensor.

This is

because they are made, as the Zohar says, by the impulses of the nine lower sephirot

on the crown. [Even though I have not seen this anywhere, I suppose these nine “palaces”

are the eight white hairs of Arich, and the first

tikun

of the beard

which come to Zeir Anpin.]

tx = Understanding(= Txxi)

+

Knowledge (= Txyj) +

Wisdom (= Txz k)

ty = Power (= Tyxi) +

Beauty(=Tyyj) +

Kindness(=Tyzk)

tz=Splendor (= Tzxj) +

Foundation(=Tzyj) +

Eternity (= Tzzk)

These are

not the sephirot but the result of the sephirot hitting the crown. And they are

the vessels of the infinite light which is

hvhy =

F(total) =

ò

ncos

q

Tds <???>

·

The

correspondence between the circular and straight sephirot is clearly the basis

of the lower world of logic and will, and then the physical creation as we can

see from the following diagram

†

[IMAGE: image033.gif]

a

= royalty of

AK=Statements of meta -TNT = proteins.

b

= Foundation of AK =

Statements about statements of meta -TNT = proteins acting on proteins.

c

= splendor of AK =

Statements about statements about statements of meta TNT = proteins acting on

proteins acting on proteins

f

= a = ATIKA KADISHA =

CROWN OF EMANATION

h

= Father = TNT STRINGS =

DNA

i

= MOTHER = INTERPRETATION

[conversion to meaningful form] = transcription [conversion to active form]

e

= Zeir Anpin(husband,

Son) = RNA = statements of Number theory [like “the number seven is prime”]

j

= Nukvah, (wife,

daughter) = translation by genetic code = arithmetization by Gödel Code.

g

= ARICH ANPIN =

self-reference = self-reproduction

This

system

exists

throughout Creation and is the

horizontal brick for the vertical layers. [It has already been shown that

Quantum Mechanics is easily described by a formal system of Mathematical

logic.]

[IMAGE: image034.gif]

·

It seems

to go without saying, but Hebrew is obviously a formal mathematical system with

specific rules like where ever there is a

He

at the end of a string it

can be replaced by a

Vav Tav

or wherever there is a 5 it can be replaced

by a 6; 400 or wherever there is a

Royalty

of

Beauty

it can be

replaced by

Beauty

of

Beauty

and the entire

sepherah

of

Royalty

.

·

As we can see from this diagram

†

[IMAGE: image035.gif]

Each

sepherah represents a different plane of existence. So, for example the world

of logic [the sepherah of wisdom] is one level of reality, while the world of

the light [the sepherah of the crown] is another level.

Neither

one is more nor less real than the other, just each one is different. So, the

fact that some people get a certain light by meditation doesn't cancel the

validity of the world of logic. The connection between each world is the

Strange

Loops

that exist in each one.

For

instance, “This sentence is false.” This explains why morality isn't rational,

for morality stems from the lower six sepherot [except for the bottom] and

can't claim to be rational — which is from the world of logic. The light inside

each one is circulating, so attachment to any sepherah takes one in a somewhat

circular path.

The

Strange

Loop

inside of morality is thus:

·

Kindness dictates giving with no limit.

·

Judgement indicates punishment without limit.

·

Each limits the other to come to Justice [the

middle sepherah-beauty], i.e., its’ two infinite sets that cancel to come to

the synthesis of giving only what you own yourself, and not to take from the

rich to give to the poor.

·

Each

sepherah has its own rules for people: the rules of the Torah come from Beauty,

the laws of the country one lives in come from Royalty. Thus, just because one

follows the laws of the Torah [Beauty] that does't mean one is permitted to transgress

the laws of one's country. And if one does so, Royalty itself takes revenge.

The rules

of Foundation are related to sexual purity.

The rules

of Wisdom are related to learning Wisdom and not making mistakes in the ten

subjects of wisdom: Math, Physics, Chemistry, Logic, Biology, Music,

Philosophy, Kabbalah [i.e., the three highest ones]. Of course, people that are

more associated with one sepherah particularly [or their root is there] must be

more careful than others in matters relating to that sepherah.

·

A person with

only a nefesh has a straight world line. A person with spirit has a second-order

curve as a world line. A person with neshamah [soul] has a third order curve. If

he has nefesh of the Neshamah, i.e., world line is Neil's parabola where he

reaches the Origin just once.unless his function is recurring.

The five

levels of the soul are a Neils Parabola, the Witch of Agnesi, the Folium of Descartes,

the Cissoid and the Strophoid.

If he has

one of the five levels of the Chaya also, his world line follows the pattern of

the five types of curves of the fourth order, the  Cochoids of Nicomedes, the

Limacon of Pascal, the Cardioid, the Cassinian Oval, or the Lemniscate.

