
Section IV - Ideas

Chapter 1 –

Ideas in Kabbalah - The Song of the Soul

Introduction

Science

and Kabbalah are two distinct fields with apparently no relationship between

them. However here is my intention to show how each can illuminate the other as

long as each keeps to its respective parameters.

Mathematics

is the lowest

sepherah

of the spiritual world and the highest of the

physical, as Rabbi Luria says “the essence of numbers is in the sepherah of

Royalty”, so its’ laws govern both disciplines. Rabbi Issac Luria uses a

physical model to describe the spiritual reality (as per the Eitz Chayim).

In this

section I attempt to show the mathematical principles of this reality. Further,

as physics needs mathematical models to clarify itself, so the spiritual world

needs physical models to make clear its meaning. These I also will attempt to

show but bear in mind these are different worlds-- parallel but different, and

each lower world provides a model for what is above it and is like a reflection

in a pond. I think that every mathematical model has a corresponding spiritual

and a corresponding physical reality. Now

know

,

many will object that the formalist philosophy of mathematics claims that math

only deals with abstract symbols that may or may not have a relation to

reality. But this simply isn't true. Reality itself seems to be based on math,

and mathematicians know this. They use the theory of numbers as an aid to gain

knowledge about formal systems, and thus they show that in truth they believe

that numbers are actually a part of reality.

·

Four

types of flux (or Divine light) flow into the spiritual empty space: The Divine

names

72, 63, 45, 52

, i.e., gravitational, strong, weak, and

electro-magnetic.

·

The four

worlds of Emanation, Creation, Formation and Action correspond to the four

types of space: metric space, normed space, Banach space, and Hilbert space -

where for each different types of operations are valid.

[The Ari

is clear that in AK even ideas of spiritual space don't apply so he is

apparently talking about a spiritual space where the concept of distance
