
Wisdom will have integer-spin like Photons or in general any particles whose

exchange generates some interaction. This is a problem, for bosons carry all

the interactions -- so aren't there left-handed interactions from the sephirot

of power? The answer is that there are only four interactions, from the names

72 (right), 63 (left), 45 (right), 52 (left), and the four are always symmetric

until some Higgs field breaks the symmetry.

·

Since

Royalty and Beauty are rotating on their own axis, they emit wave radiation

from of the four types of waves (72, 63, 45, 52). Since Royalty rotates around Beauty

they consist of a closed system, and give off Name-72 waves, which involves a

loss of their energy of motion and rest energy. Therefore, they need to receive

more energy into order to keep up the oscillation. (If not, they just float

away as name 72 radiation waves.

·

The

singularity in the center of the empty space is a white hole not surrounded by

an event horizon, which spews out spiritual mass and energy, not subject to the

laws of spiritual physics. It has its own circular and straight sephirot

outside of it. Its surface is our four dimensional world. The inside I think is

a different type of continuation of the process of the evolving of the

spiritual worlds in the regular empty space.

†

[IMAGE: image019.jpg]

†

[IMAGE: image020.jpg]

TNT is Typographical Number Theory.

·

Since the

whole universe is analytic it can be expanded into a Taylor series (that's why

one needs to get married i.e., in order to continue the series.) The circular sephirot

are analytic but the straight sephirot are not. But the bottom seven sephirot

of the generality of the worlds [all taken as one] are analytic because they

are like cylinders.

·

Sephirot

are a vector space since the operations of addition and multiplication apply to

them. Multiplication by the sephirot is what the

kabbalah

calls mating,

for addition is just adding two things [of the same essence] together, while

mating is applying the value of one thing to the value of another in order to

come out with a greater (or lesser) result.

·

The

circular sephirot are analytic since they have a derivative everywhere. I don't
