
is found mainly in front of Adam Kadmon, but there is

some slight probability of the light being found elsewhere, and so we find some

light in the back of the light of .

·

It's

clear that the Vessels were broken because of there being too much energy

inside the vessel (so if there was let's say a lower sephirah's light it would

be o.k.). So, when before he says the vessels weren't fixed as one male and

female it would seem he means that if the vessels would have been fixed as one

there would have been strength to hold the light. However, why in the higher sephirot

weren't they broken? It would seem that this is because the light of the Crown

was made to hold its very intense light so the rest of the light couldn't break

it. They all have the same wavelength, when they are up there in the Crown, but

the lower light has a smaller amplitude, so the amplitudes combine but don't

break the vessel since its made for that wavelength. But the problem with this

is that shouldn't the vessel break at their own resonance frequency? Perhaps

the

nekudim

are spiritual neutrons that are absorbed into the vessels

and cause them to break apart by atomic fission. Its not that they break by the

force of the impact. The breaking of the vessels was a chain reaction. The

energy given off was (The mass of the sephirot)

[IMAGE: image007.gif]

(The

speed of the Infinite Light) ²

·

The

higher worlds of the Kabbalah are not higher in the conventional sense but rather

at a 90° angle to our 3D space. As the electrons (the letters of the alphabet)

flow through the sephirot an outer magnetic field is generated. It would seem

the physical universe is surrounded by Formation

outside, in terms of the

circular sephirot

(

in plain 3D terms) -- but there the world is

spiritual, and that “up” also means in one more direction up in terms of the

straight sephirot. In the middle of the empty space, it would seem there is a

singularity, the most inner point of the circular sephirot, for as they

progress towards the center, they become more physical until you get a type of

Higgs Field that transforms spiritual energy into physical. The Eitz Chayim is

all about the straight sephirot and doesn't deal with the circular ones which

are the spiritual root of non-Jews, and the fields of the physical universe.

·

The Schwarzschild

Radius of the empty space is:

[IMAGE: image016.gif]
