
·

It seems

from this that as God puts more energy into the empty space the radius gets

bigger. The singularity of infinite light in the center of the empty space is

what causes it to be curved. The outer light surrounding the straight sephirot

is the magnetic field from the name 52 surrounding a current-bearing conductor

of the light of the name 45. The circular sephirot are rotating in an external

magnetic field and that is how they create the electric current of the straight

sephirot, as the sages said, “there is a sphere that circles around in the

world”.

(The

Circular sephirot are 3­D spheres rotating sideways into the 4

th

spiritual dimension). (Since they are accelerating, they give out gravitational

waves also, which also affects the straight sephirot. Obviously, the broken

vessels give out gravitational waves also as they fall and later rise). (The

straight sephirot have to be electric since they are straight and don't make a

complete circle like a magnetic field). This leaves us with figuring out how

the next 3 forces relate to the names 63 and 72 and this certainly seems to

imply that the straight lines of gravity are produced by some rotating outer

field of some higher force surrounding the 3 dimensions of the universe.

·

The

universe operates like a pentode

[11]

,

and this explains the reason for the grid between Emanation and Creation (the

suppressor grid) and between Creation and Formation (the screen grid) and

between Formation and the physical universe (the control grid) -- the main idea

is because the current is AC (i.e., reaching and not reaching as it explains at

length in the Eitz Chayim). You use a grid to make a change in the plate

current (the source of the light) by small changes in the grid potential that

is caused by mitzvot and good deeds. [There is one problem with this and that

is that the current shouldn't be affected by distance, so how can I explain the

fact that the Eitz Chayim says distance and resistance are factors.]

·

The wavelength of the light of each

sephirah is

[IMAGE: image017.gif]

·

When the

string of the vessel of the Crown is plucked, it emits a wave with harmonics.

The frequency of the crown is 10 times the frequency of Royalty. The problem

was that all the harmonics were above that of the Crown, so the lower vessels

broke. The correction was when the string of Royalty was plucked and the higher

sephirot were its harmonics, so the energy was less.
