
the left is emanation.

·

There are

ten empty spaces, and each is divisible into ten, which are divisible into ten

ad infinitum. Each one is on a different plane, i.e., the three dimensional

sphere is surrounded by a 4-D sphere which is surrounded etc. Each has its own

surrounding sephirot in its own dimension. For instance, our empty space is

surrounded by Royalty of the Infinite One which is surrounded etc. Like this:

[IMAGE: image032.gif]

A = The

empty space.

b = Top

of the empty space, circular Royalty of the Infinite One.

c =

Square royalty of the Infinite One. This is what the Kabbalists of the Middle

Ages call the Royalty of the Infinite One. However, I haven't seen the Ari

mention it.

d =

Circular foundation.

e =

Square foundation. The square sephirot are the source of the linear sephirot in

the empty space. The lines coming down from the top to the center are the roots

of the sephirot in the shape of an Eagle.

The lines

of the left side are the root of the sephirot in the shape of a lion. The right

is the root of the Bull. The lines coming up to the center are the sephirot of

Adam Kadmon, the sephirot in the shape of a person, which is the general

subject of the Eitz Chayim. The time-axis is negative, so to get the regular

order we are used to you have to turn it upside down. This, it seems, is the

root of the Baal Hatanya's idea of equating

tohu

[chaos] with the angles

of the Divine Chariot.

The idea

of turning the whole thing over is Rabbi Nachman's of man ruling over the

angels.

[I know

there are many times when it seems the Baal Hatanya has no source in the

Kabbalah but with patience, I have usually found some source for him. For

instance, it bothered me a long time that he equated the higher Unification

with the higher knowledge. Now that has no way of working with the Drush HaDaat

at the end of the Eitz Chayim. Eventually, I discovered that the commentary on

the Rashash, the Shemen Sasson, says Drush HaDaat is only the generality of the

Emanation and in fact doesn't work with the specifics, and that the higher

Israel and Understanding are half of The Father and the

Mother
