Chapter 5 - Happiness

“Life

without pleasure is impossible.”

–

Thomas Aquinas

·

Happiness

is the result of motion upward or inward, which depends on

one's

upward or inward energy. Some people have only upward

energy, and some have energy that drives them inward. But there is a law of

conservation of energy which results in the law of conservation of happiness.

Only a certain amount of happiness is granted to one. But by association with

others, one reaches a state of equilibrium with them. If they are unhappy then

eventually one’s happiness gets dissipated by them. But by prayer, learning

Torah and Wisdom, and kindness you can draw more from God (but you can't create

it yourself). Each of these (or any service connected with the ten Divine

sephirot), draws with it, when done in connection with God, a certain light and

happiness related to its own sepherah and also brings with it a special

physical blessing, e.g., kindness brings love into one's life, sexual purity

brings sex (i.e. not to have sex in a wrong way tends to bring sex in the right

way). A result of this law is that great pleasure and great pain always come

together so that the equilibrium will be preserved. An example of this is the

Kennedy family.

·

There is

another conservation law of spiritual energy, that if you spend it on one thing

you won't have it for something else; so, choose wisely. Try to spend it on

things that will draw further energy from the Source, i.e., good deeds. [Using

one's spiritual energy is what Rabbi Nachman means by praying with strength.

Yet, because of the law of conservation of spiritual energy, one should be

careful how he uses it and conserve it for important things and not use it all

up on small things].

·

Rabbi

Nachman says that it is always an important commandment to be happy [in God].

So, if you have a doubt about if you should do something or not, i.e., if it's

God's

will or not, then look at the happiness factor. If it's

there, then it's God's will. [I think that the translation from Rabbi Nachman's

Yiddish into the Hebrew aphorism that “It is a great mitzvah to be happy

always”, is a mistranslation for there is no such mitzvah. Rather he meant, “It

is always a great mitzvah to be happy”- i.e., to be happy and rejoice in the

Lord.

The

Gemarah in Avoda Zara asks on the contradiction between the verses in Kohelet,

where King Solomon praises happiness in one and puts it down in the other… It

answers that happiness in God is a good thing, happiness not in God is not

.

The reason for this is

that h

appiness is

klipat noga

[the tree of knowledge of

good and evil], so when it is in God it becomes included in holiness and the

bad in it falls away. But depression is from the three totally evil klipot. Therefore

any depression is evil.

·

Now you

could ask about Mozart and Beethoven or artists in general where it seems a bit

of unhappiness stirred and inspired their best creations. On one level you can

answer that

their experiences were unhappy, not their attitude. Also

,

Rabbi Shneur Zalman explained that judgements come

from a higher source than blessings so when one stays attached to God in the

long run the judgements turn into the highest blessings.

“Nothing

that is vast enters into the life of mortals without a curse.” -Sophocles.

Heisenberg

was embarrassed at his oral exam for his P.H.D. when he didn't know how to work

out the resolution of a microscope, and he had to go and re-learn it. When the

next year he developed

Matrix

Mechanics

[or quantum mechanics] the subject of

resolution became a powerful tool to show the truth of the uncertainty

principle.

There was

a young woman accused of communists ties and her reputation ruined and almost

lost her job. She went to the president of the company to ask him to stick up

for her. He took an interest in her and besides helping her keep her job he

married her. She became the first lady of the

USA, the

wife of President George Bush.

·

Aristotle

had a basic philosophy of happiness that I would like to write down in summary

form in order to show the logical basis for why it is important to keep the

mitzvot

.

Socrates

said, “An unexamined life is not worth living.” Aristotle said, “An unplanned

life is not worth examining”. He

held that one

has

to have a plan. But not any plan will do. He held that there is only one right

plan. If one lives by the wrong plan, he will not have a good life. Now there

are things we do just to live. But there are other things we do in order to

live well,

i.e., achieve

happiness and enrich

our lives. But we live in order to live well,

i.e., to

have happiness. Who could say that they don't want

happiness? Happiness is the highest goal. People are happy because they have

what they want. Yet we all have different wants. But in truth though we want

different

things, living

well is really the

same for us all.

There are

things that we want and things that we need. The need for food and the need for

knowledge are human needs. Some things we want aren't good for us but things we

need

are

always

good for us. The need for food we feel but

there are other needs that we don't feel so readily. The one right plan for

living is to seek and acquire the things that are really good for us, the

things we need to live and the things we need to live well. Thus, happiness is

really the same for everybody. It is to acquire the things that are really good

for us to have.

These are

external needs of the body and internal needs of the mind. The mind by reason

of its nature needs to know. Thus there are the goods of the mind such as

knowledge and skills and especially the skill of thinking.

There is

also the need of the heart to love and be loved. Also there is the need for

self-esteem and honor if it is honor for the right reasons. [I believe there is

also a human need for freedom.]

There is

also another kind of need, the need of the soul for good habits or virtues,

i.e., the habit of choosing the virtuous thing without having to go through a

difficult process every time a situation comes up: as in temperance and

courage.

The

reason God gave us the Torah is to teach us the virtues of the mind [right

opinions] and of the soul and good habits, i.e., to receive the needs of the

body and soul.

Now there

is another need that Aristotle didn't mention and that is the need to work for

a goal. Every human being has this, as Victor Frankel said [I think from Nietzsche],

“Give a man a reason to live and he will find the how to live.”

But this

is, in a sense, included in Aristotle since happiness is a constant process of acquiring

more things than one needs. The needs of the body are finite, but the need of

the soul is infinite, since the soul needs God — and acquiring more knowledge

of God or his works is an infinite process. At any rate, happiness is the

feeling one gets from movement upwards or inward as I wrote before.

But just

any goal isn't enough. It has to be the right goal. The right goal — Aristotle

has already explained — is to get our needs met. Thus, it seems we have

circular reasoning [The Strange Loop].

The

answer to this, however, is that Man [as a society and also individual men]

need to work as an upward spiral [The Strange Spiral].

First

getting the physical needs met, then the emotional, then the mental and then

spiritual. But each individual may have a particular need which he feels more

strongly than the others — and thus some people work on the spiritual at the

expense of the physical. The reason for this is that this spiral is usually for

the community as a whole. Some people work on one need and others on another

but in the whole society everyone benefits.

Free-will

is when a person has the choice of determining whether he wants to work on a

higher or lower need. Thus, a need can be evil if a person can work on a higher

need and instead chooses the lower one, or it can be neither good nor evil if

one is only able to work on it alone, or it can be good if a person has to

choose between it and a lower need.

The idea

of the Strange Loop is that a system that refers to itself must be incomplete,

like the electron that acts on itself. The whole creation on every level is

filled with the strange. The reason is, I think, like Hegel saw, they drive us

toward a higher level. So, the puzzle of Quantum Mechanics that physicists to

this day cannot figure out is not an isolated phenomenon, but part of the

mathematical reality of Creation.

G

ö

del's theorem shows there

is a fundamental limitation to any formal self-consistent system that refers to

itself. In fact, Hofstadter pointed out that any understanding of the human

mind will force us to accept “causes that propagate both upwards and downwards

in the Tangled Hierarchy of mentality....”

Incidentally

the

Lekutai Moharan

of Rabbi Nachman is also filled with these loops as

Rabbi Nathan pointed out, like sexual purity and prayer depending one on the

other, etc. There is a way to get the infinite spirals of logic to converge by

means of the idea of the improper integral that converges, i.e., if we could

find the formula for any one of these spirals we could see if they can converge

to a definite sum by integrating them.

Now this

is related to politics in the following way: Living in a good society is

necessary for happiness because the plan and organization of a society can be

helpful to attain this happiness (or a hindrance, as I have mentioned). Not all

forms of government are good for this goal. The type of government necessary

for happiness is a democracy, since the government that is good helps the

people achieve happiness.

Thus, the

Torah gives the people the prerogative to appoint a King. A government that

serves the bureaucracy is not a good government. Since people are created with

equality, all should have an equal chance to advance themselves - not just

those that are part of the government. A government is not good that treats

equals as unequal's and gives unfair advantage to one person over another by

free hand outs to one group or another. The real goods that we need, like

virtue and courage, are largely dependent on our individual decisions. The

government should not tax one group to give to another, for that is not

treating people equally. Only in the case of deprivation, that some people

suffer because of some misfortune not in their power to control, should the government

help. The State can only supply the conditions of peace necessary for

happiness, but it can't make people happy, or even be sure that the people will

make the right decisions. To expect the government to do more is to invite

tyranny. However, there must be a body of judges to counterbalance the effect

of the democracy since in any free society there is a class of unskilled labor

that are going to feel disenfranchised financially and in other ways by the

establishment and who feel they have nothing to lose by disrupting the system,

so they become anti­-morality since they feel morality is simply to serve the

rich. They feel they have a right to other people's money. This class can

become powerful enough to destroy the society and thus the Torah supports a

balanced system.

This

disagrees with Hegel in that the study of history isn't just a way of coming to

the right government or coming to freedom. However, Hegel’s idea is rooted in

Kabbalah and especially that of Rabbi Shneur Zalman that the combining of Tohu

and Tikun leads to them coming up to and being included in the Name 63 which is

the root of Freedom. Thus, the plan of the Torah is to create a space for each

individual where they can grow and keep the mitzvot and not be infringed upon

by society at large, and yet still be a part of the whole. I think the level

after that is to come to the name 72 which is happiness or attachment with God

which is higher than freedom. [The fact that the human being has needs of the

spirit not just of the body is one reason Marx's material dialectics is

mistaken. Hegel at least had the intelligence to see the motivating force of

history is the quest of the Spirit for freedom [the name 63] but I believe that

there is a level after that of Attachment with God [the name 72] which is a

need of the soul.

·

The Baal Shem Tov Quoted Rav Saadiyah Gaon as saying, “It is

proper for a person to desire all physical things for from thence he will come

to desire Torah and the service of God.” This goes along with the Rambam in

Moreh Nevuchim that one who is feeling down should sit among the “Lovely forms”

and listen to music. [This gave some people at the beginning of the movement of

Chasidut to be somewhat promiscuous.] But this is clearly the idea of serving

God by everything since there is nothing besides God and everything is God, and

there is no evil in the world at all.

