
said, “An unexamined life is not worth living.” Aristotle said, “An unplanned

life is not worth examining”. He

held that one

has

to have a plan. But not any plan will do. He held that there is only one right

plan. If one lives by the wrong plan, he will not have a good life. Now there

are things we do just to live. But there are other things we do in order to

live well,

i.e., achieve

happiness and enrich

our lives. But we live in order to live well,

i.e., to

have happiness. Who could say that they don't want

happiness? Happiness is the highest goal. People are happy because they have

what they want. Yet we all have different wants. But in truth though we want

different

things, living

well is really the

same for us all.

There are

things that we want and things that we need. The need for food and the need for

knowledge are human needs. Some things we want aren't good for us but things we

need

are

always

good for us. The need for food we feel but

there are other needs that we don't feel so readily. The one right plan for

living is to seek and acquire the things that are really good for us, the

things we need to live and the things we need to live well. Thus, happiness is

really the same for everybody. It is to acquire the things that are really good

for us to have.

These are

external needs of the body and internal needs of the mind. The mind by reason

of its nature needs to know. Thus there are the goods of the mind such as

knowledge and skills and especially the skill of thinking.

There is

also the need of the heart to love and be loved. Also there is the need for

self-esteem and honor if it is honor for the right reasons. [I believe there is

also a human need for freedom.]

There is

also another kind of need, the need of the soul for good habits or virtues,

i.e., the habit of choosing the virtuous thing without having to go through a

difficult process every time a situation comes up: as in temperance and

courage.

The

reason God gave us the Torah is to teach us the virtues of the mind [right
