Chapter 5 - Happiness

“Life

without pleasure is impossible.”

–

Thomas Aquinas

·

Happiness

is the result of motion upward or inward, which depends on

one's

upward or inward energy. Some people have only upward

energy, and some have energy that drives them inward. But there is a law of

conservation of energy which results in the law of conservation of happiness.

Only a certain amount of happiness is granted to one. But by association with

others, one reaches a state of equilibrium with them. If they are unhappy then

eventually one’s happiness gets dissipated by them. But by prayer, learning

Torah and Wisdom, and kindness you can draw more from God (but you can't create

it yourself). Each of these (or any service connected with the ten Divine

sephirot), draws with it, when done in connection with God, a certain light and

happiness related to its own sepherah and also brings with it a special

physical blessing, e.g., kindness brings love into one's life, sexual purity

brings sex (i.e. not to have sex in a wrong way tends to bring sex in the right

way). A result of this law is that great pleasure and great pain always come

together so that the equilibrium will be preserved. An example of this is the

Kennedy family.

·

There is

another conservation law of spiritual energy, that if you spend it on one thing

you won't have it for something else; so, choose wisely. Try to spend it on

things that will draw further energy from the Source, i.e., good deeds. [Using

one's spiritual energy is what Rabbi Nachman means by praying with strength.

Yet, because of the law of conservation of spiritual energy, one should be

careful how he uses it and conserve it for important things and not use it all

up on small things].

·

Rabbi

Nachman says that it is always an important commandment to be happy [in God].

So, if you have a doubt about if you should do something or not, i.e., if it's

God's

will or not, then look at the happiness factor. If it's

there, then it's God's will. [I think that the translation from Rabbi Nachman's

Yiddish into the Hebrew aphorism that “It is a great mitzvah to be happy

always”, is a mistranslation for there is no such mitzvah. Rather he meant, “It

is always a great mitzvah to be happy”- i.e., to be happy and rejoice in the

Lord.

The

Gemarah in Avoda Zara asks on the contradiction between the verses in Kohelet,
