
Incidentally

the

Lekutai Moharan

of Rabbi Nachman is also filled with these loops as

Rabbi Nathan pointed out, like sexual purity and prayer depending one on the

other, etc. There is a way to get the infinite spirals of logic to converge by

means of the idea of the improper integral that converges, i.e., if we could

find the formula for any one of these spirals we could see if they can converge

to a definite sum by integrating them.

Now this

is related to politics in the following way: Living in a good society is

necessary for happiness because the plan and organization of a society can be

helpful to attain this happiness (or a hindrance, as I have mentioned). Not all

forms of government are good for this goal. The type of government necessary

for happiness is a democracy, since the government that is good helps the

people achieve happiness.

Thus, the

Torah gives the people the prerogative to appoint a King. A government that

serves the bureaucracy is not a good government. Since people are created with

equality, all should have an equal chance to advance themselves - not just

those that are part of the government. A government is not good that treats

equals as unequal's and gives unfair advantage to one person over another by

free hand outs to one group or another. The real goods that we need, like

virtue and courage, are largely dependent on our individual decisions. The

government should not tax one group to give to another, for that is not

treating people equally. Only in the case of deprivation, that some people

suffer because of some misfortune not in their power to control, should the government

help. The State can only supply the conditions of peace necessary for

happiness, but it can't make people happy, or even be sure that the people will

make the right decisions. To expect the government to do more is to invite

tyranny. However, there must be a body of judges to counterbalance the effect

of the democracy since in any free society there is a class of unskilled labor

that are going to feel disenfranchised financially and in other ways by the

establishment and who feel they have nothing to lose by disrupting the system,

so they become anti­-morality since they feel morality is simply to serve the

rich. They feel they have a right to other people's money. This class can

become powerful enough to destroy the society and thus the Torah supports a

balanced system.

This

disagrees with Hegel in that the study of history isn't just a way of coming to

the right government or coming to freedom. However, Hegel’s idea is rooted in

Kabbalah and especially that of Rabbi Shneur Zalman that the combining of Tohu

and Tikun leads to them coming up to and being included in the Name 63 which is

the root of Freedom. Thus, the plan of the Torah is to create a space for each

individual where they can grow and keep the mitzvot and not be infringed upon

by society at large, and yet still be a part of the whole. I think the level
