
opinions] and of the soul and good habits, i.e., to receive the needs of the

body and soul.

Now there

is another need that Aristotle didn't mention and that is the need to work for

a goal. Every human being has this, as Victor Frankel said [I think from Nietzsche],

“Give a man a reason to live and he will find the how to live.”

But this

is, in a sense, included in Aristotle since happiness is a constant process of acquiring

more things than one needs. The needs of the body are finite, but the need of

the soul is infinite, since the soul needs God — and acquiring more knowledge

of God or his works is an infinite process. At any rate, happiness is the

feeling one gets from movement upwards or inward as I wrote before.

But just

any goal isn't enough. It has to be the right goal. The right goal — Aristotle

has already explained — is to get our needs met. Thus, it seems we have

circular reasoning [The Strange Loop].

The

answer to this, however, is that Man [as a society and also individual men]

need to work as an upward spiral [The Strange Spiral].

First

getting the physical needs met, then the emotional, then the mental and then

spiritual. But each individual may have a particular need which he feels more

strongly than the others — and thus some people work on the spiritual at the

expense of the physical. The reason for this is that this spiral is usually for

the community as a whole. Some people work on one need and others on another

but in the whole society everyone benefits.

Free-will

is when a person has the choice of determining whether he wants to work on a

higher or lower need. Thus, a need can be evil if a person can work on a higher

need and instead chooses the lower one, or it can be neither good nor evil if

one is only able to work on it alone, or it can be good if a person has to

choose between it and a lower need.

The idea

of the Strange Loop is that a system that refers to itself must be incomplete,

like the electron that acts on itself. The whole creation on every level is

filled with the strange. The reason is, I think, like Hegel saw, they drive us

toward a higher level. So, the puzzle of Quantum Mechanics that physicists to

this day cannot figure out is not an isolated phenomenon, but part of the

mathematical reality of Creation.

G

ö

del's theorem shows there

is a fundamental limitation to any formal self-consistent system that refers to

itself. In fact, Hofstadter pointed out that any understanding of the human

mind will force us to accept “causes that propagate both upwards and downwards

in the Tangled Hierarchy of mentality....”
