
Dedication

Dedicated to my parents

Philip

and Leila Rosenblum, the

greatest,

wisest people

I

have ever known, and my children.

Acknowledgements

Acknowledgements to my son

Moshe who put his time, sweat and tears into this book. Much of this book

consists of discussions I have had with him and my son, Nachman Isaac. To my

brothers David and Keith who have stood with me all the years through thick and

thin. They are the greatest brothers one could have.

I did not originate the

idea of using physics to explain the Torah. I got it from the book Genesis and

the Big Bang.

INTRODUCTION

“By belief in the wise, we

are able to bring our judgement to light. By belief in the wise of all the

generations’, one can find the right advice for all his situations.”

-Rabbi Nachman of Breslov

“Nothing in this world is

so powerful, as an idea whose time has come.”

-Victor Hugo

It is my hope that this

book will show the higher root of philosophy and science and provide a basis

for one unified system of science, philosophy, and Kabbalah.

The world is a symphony

made of different instruments all playing different parts of the song that only

God can hear. This symphony is “the revelation of the Oneness of God”, and the

evil and cruel contribute just as much to it as the righteous and brave-for in

the end darkness and evil will disappear by the light and by their

disappearance God will be magnified just as much as the salvation of the good

and just.

This applies to every

person just as much as in the world at large-for in every person the good

essence in every person will rise and be grafted into the holy light and the

evil will fall away and vanish forever as the shadows before the light.

The root and basis of my

path is faith -- faith in all the wise men of history, and especially the Sages

of Israel. It is the conflicts between the sages themselves which force me to

formulate a theory consistent with the Gemara and the later Sages as well as

with history and the plain facts of science. It just happened that in the

course of my studies I noticed many connections between systems that were

considered to be contradictory, and many times I noticed how the questions that

one system couldn't answer were answered by another. So, I decided that,

perhaps, there really is no contradiction, and there is really only one great

system. So here is my attempt to formulate it.

My motivation in writing this book was

to give myself a reference book, to help me evaluate any new ideas or issues

that come up, and see how they fit in the general scheme of things. My hope is

that this will be a help for others also.
