Chapter 3 – The Song of

Philosophy

[MR1]

[MR2]

·

The

ultimate purpose in the creation of the world is the revelation of the oneness

of God. One central method of its accomplishment is by the universal trait of

reciprocity, i.e., the idea behind “what one gives is what one receives.”

By the

active “rewarding” of truth and goodness, and the “punishment” of evil, the

oneness of God is revealed. This happens in every society, in every level of

existence. This process can also be seen as the sifting out of the bad and

bringing up the good to be included in the oneness of God.

This

principle results in infinite chaos depending on any slight variation in

events. How the chaos here results in the oneness there is not known in

detail—an element of it may be what the sages have said: that the good suffer

in this world as punishment for their sin's which they have committed in this

life time or in previous life times so that when they get to the next world

they can receive the undiluted light of God with their loved ones, and the end

result of good being rewarded does not happen until the next world where the

oneness of God is revealed.

·

Because of the compassion of God, He created the world. For he

wanted to reveal His compassion, and there was no creation on whom would He

have to show his compassion. Therefore he made everything from the top of Emanation

to the center of the earth for this purpose,” — Lekutai Moharan

The idea

of the creation of man is for the expression of the goodness of God. For there

was a basic lack in the Divine traits before the world was created — the lack

of the revelation. This may tie in with Hegel’s idea that each trait implies

its opposite.

Another

way of understanding the “lack” in each trait in itself is that as long as it

is not being, it is lacking the

quality

of being used.

[9]

This understanding

leads one to assume that the Divine traits  creations, but essential aspects of

God. For example, to correct the two deficits of

goodness

and

wisdom

there was created the circular sephirot and the straight sephirot.

·

God

created free-will so man could

choose

God, this by choosing good from

evil, and thus have a connection with God based on ones’ own deeds and words

and thoughts and desire, and not based on a free handout. To receive via a free

handout is from the level of

royalty

, whose nature is that it must

receive. This is what the problem was in the very beginning.

But now

man has united Royalty with the higher trait represented by giving through

choosing God and his reward of the light come through his own merits.

[10]

·

From the

idea that God fills all worlds and surrounds all worlds the idea becomes

apparent that one must unite the sparks of holiness in everything with the

infinite presence of God Himself by choosing God in everything he does, says,

thinks, or desires, and thus uniting himself and all creation with God. When

one is united with God then he too can create Godliness. This is indeed the 1

st

commandment in the Torah — to be fruitful and multiply, i.e., in children and

ideas, and music.

•

Pleasure

is on the level of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, and therefore not

good or bad in itself but dependent on what one uses it for. If one brings up

the sparks of holiness in that pleasure into holiness, he himself goes up and

the evil falls. Just saying a blessing has nothing to do with this. It depends

a lot on how he raises the children. If it's food it depends on what one does

with the energy. Pleasure for the sake of pleasure remains on the original

level and it falls into evil and becomes evil itself. Pleasure however for the

sake of God and done with attachment to God is like a sacrifice, and is on a

very holy level.

•

Allowing free thought is

important for ideas need room to flow, and when restricted like in a

constricted vessel, they cannot. Similarly, logic, in its purest form, also

limits free thought. Revelation also limits free thought--there are things

beyond the comprehension of the mind that only revelation can reveal.

So,

reason

and

revelation

are the two outer vessels that contain free thought; they

correspond to

Chaya

and

Yechida

. Reason and revelation (i.e., the

heart) should be able to work together but when there is a disagreement, then

obviously one of them is wrong. Reason then reigns usually tends to win out,

and the intuition or revelation is left in the spiritual universe. The

dichotomy of universities and religion (reason and revelation) is the dichotomy

between

chaos

and

correction

, and the goal is to bring the light

of chaos into the vessels of correction. Rabbi Nachman and the Rambam disagreed

whether logic is subjected to revelation or visa versa, but in fact there is no

disagreement. Each has its own area where it is qualified to judge.

·

The

spirit can only reveal things that are of the spirit. There is nothing but God,

so He permeates and is unified with the physical and spiritual universe so

God's presence in the physical universe is subject to logical proof which is

what Spinoza does. But he can't go beyond that into the spiritual realm which

works with mathematical principles but isn't subject to proof. That is the

result of the original condensing in which God removed the revelation and proof

of his presence from the empty space, and only as we progress through time does

God reveal his presence and proof of his Presence one level at a time — as

Rabbi Nachman comments on the empty space and relates levels of revelation to

the outer makifim (fields) in which one level at a time enters humanity. So at

least Spinoza got the first step.

·

“It takes

many years of sifting through false teachers to find a wise one. Don't be so

fast to give up the wise teachers of history for they have been sifted from

millions of false ones and their teachings have stood the test of the ages.” (Greenfield).

The Bible the Sutras, the Talmud, Jesus, and Socrates may seem to contradict

but in fact each sees a different aspect of and points to the same truth. Each

were digging up the building blocks of the final structure. (Not to say that

the structure is ever finished) Some people are content to poke around the

stones, and others to try to knock down someone else's stone I think it is

wiser to assemble them into one great building and then to ride the elevator to

the top to see further.

·

Nietzsche

was a spark of Jeremiah the prophet whose root is in pure Judgment. Since he

wasn't Jewish he lacked the one defining characteristic of the Jewish soul –

integration, i.e., combining and integrating judgment with kindness.

This is

how Einstein was able to combine electro-magnetism with kinematics and also was

the root of his idea of combining all the four forces into one. Other examples

of this are the Rambam combining revelation and reason, Spinoza combining

philosophy and mathematics.

·

God is

both secular and religious. On the level of the 3 highest

sephirot

God is secular, and on the level of the lower 7, He is

religious. The constant flux between these two poles creates the wave pattern

that is so characteristic of Western civilization. The Greeks and Romans were

quite religious yet their thinkers were secular. The Jewish world also is

characterized by the interplay between the different poles that vary with time,

e.g.,

chasidus

and the Gra, Kabbalah and legalism, Sepharadi and

Ashkenazi, etc.

•

On The Nature of God

and Existence

God

contains the set of all things, the existing and the non-existing. But that is

only on one plane of reality. You have to go up to the next level and there God

also is and includes the set of all

ideas

existing and non-existing, and

so on vertically.

Existence

itself is only one characteristic of God. The hidden face where he makes

himself

non-existent

is a result of our own hiding ourselves from him by not

talking and communicating with him.

•

Idea - On the Oneness

of God

The idea

of the Oneness of God is that the

c

reator of

everything is one and not many.

The idea

doesn't deny that there are many things and forces in the world

, b

ut the idea of God's oneness is that the One God created

everything and controls everything.

The idea

of the Torah that

:

“

There is nothing besides Him [God]” is that only God

has true existence and everything else derives its existence from him

constantly.

Gods

being one has to mean one substance, not one quality or quantity because if He

is one quality and one quantity then he is by definition already two things.

When the Torah says God is one, it doesn't mean continuous since then God would

be divisible. If one means indivisible -- it says that nothing exists besides

God since everything is included in or part of his Godliness -- then nothing

can have quality or quantity. If it means the essence of God is one, and the

essence of everything is God, then to be good or evil is the exact same thing!

Rather it

is like I said above -- the intention of the Torah is that there is a Creator

and that creator is one, the one cause of existence. These arguments I got from

Aristotle (in his Physics) who used them to refute the idea that all being is

one.

Idea - Coming to

Absolute Knowledge:

Rabbi

Nachman held that absolute knowledge is possible only by revelation

. And

if one lacks that, then he can depend on faith.

H

e held that there is some point that the human mind can't

cross in order to come to absolute knowledge without faith. Rabbi Nachman

believed

that one can come to faith by prayer.

It seems

that in this, Kant and Rabbi Nachman agreed -- that by pure reason, a-priori

knowledge is not possible. This seems to be vindicated by Quantum Mechanics

for, as in quantum mechanics, the reality we perceive is affected by our

perception of it.

Reason

then, would be needed for the clarification of revelation. It is clear that

reason has a higher place than faith in Rabbi

Nachman's

schema, as the first chapter of the

Likutei

Moharan makes clear. But to come to make that final step to God, even with

reason, is impossible to achieve except through  faith.

However,

Hegel pointed out that Kant was wrong -- because he treats ideas as mental

entities rather than logical entities within the set of

logic

space

. But

even if we would accept what Kant had to say, we could still show the existence

of God on whatever level we are willing to concede exists. For we admit that

the laws of logic work in our minds, he just asks how do we know they work in

the outside world -- so he is willing to concede the existence of an outside

world.

Now,

existence must exist and

nothingness

cannot exist, because if

nothingness would exist, then it is not

nothing

- i.e., you cannot say

about nothing the word “is”, because if it is

something

then it is not

nothing

.

Now, if

existence caused itself, when did it cause itself? Either before it existed or

after. If before, then it couldn't have caused itself, if after - then it

already existed, and needed nothing to cause it to exist. So, it must have been

caused by a Creator who needed no cause to exist but exists in and of Himself.

Since the

existence of our own logic is created by some outside cause and that cause is

not in our own minds, so the basic pattern of cause and effect hasn't been

created by our own minds but comes from an outside cause.

So, cause

and effect are not a product of our own minds. The limitation to one first

cause is because if there would be an infinite number of causes then you could

never get to cause anything to exist now for it would have had to travel in its

causes an infinite number of times -- which is impossible, for it would never

get to the “now” which has a discrete place in time. Thus, there is a limit to

the number of causes.

You can't

object with Zeno's paradox that this same logic would disprove motion since

causes are discrete things and you need in fact one discreet cause to cause

another: while measuring the distance is something we impose on the moving

ball.

When you

get to the first cause you come to God. Thus, there is a creator and he is one.

Now, since time and space may curve in on themselves, we could say that the

number of causes is finite but keeps going around in a circle. But that still

is not an objection since we are still thinking in a time loop going around in

a larger time space.  The point is we still are reduced to cause and effect

which has to have a limit.

Hegel

limits the number of causes in a different way. From two opposite concepts he

goes to a more central concept, and so on, until he gets to God by encircling

Him and narrowing down the range of the circle by his system of dialectics.

That is

actually different than my way of a long line of causes and finding God at the

end. Hegel uses dialectics like a

Mobius Strip

which starts at one side

and ends up on the other side. Thus, he limits the number of causes by

encircling the first cause. Hegel considered the array of logical

contradictions in logic to be like the Mobius Strip that reduce two sides to

one and eventually narrows down all truth to one point. The idea of my proof is

different for I am saying that Kant admitted that the Spinozian proof of God

did prove Him, but only in the world of the mind and logic. What about Reality?

I showed that if we admit to a world of reality besides the mind then we have

to admit that at least one law works there -- that of cause and effect. And once

we get to that we have proved God in the world of reality also.

At any

rate, I am using the idea of the Strange Loop in my proof having one level

refer to another level and so on till we get to God by a progression from the

physical universe to the spiritual one, until we get to infinite spirituality,

which again reconnects to the physical universe. This explains my idea of Free

Will in the section on Happiness -- which I would call the strange Spiral.

Thus, just like if we postulate that the system of natural numbers is complete,

we have to assume existence of super numbers. So, if logic is complete, we have

to assume the existence of a super logic. This supper logic, if we assume it is

complete, we have to assume the existence of a super logic etc.

·

To Hegel,

by dialect, one can come to knowledge, by an infinite progression of dialect

until one comes to the Absolute. [

Dialect

is the

process by which every logical reality is shown to be implicitly

self-contradictory and thus imply the need for a new, wider category that

contains them and resolves them until one comes to the Absolute Idea. So, if we

take the limit as the dialect approaches infinity, we get to God.

Aristotle's

proof of God is that even if we would

believe

it possible

for there to be an infinite progression of causes so you could never get to the

first cause, still, by that same reasoning nothing could move for it would need

to go back to an infinite number of causes to finally get to move. [This seems

to me to be like

Zeno's

paradox]. Thus, there

has to be a Prime Mover. But if it were moving then it also would need a mover.

Thus, the prime mover must move things without being moved itself. That is, by

causing motion by attraction rather than by propulsion. Attractive causes

operate on intelligences, so it is an intelligence that keeps a star in motion.

So, the intelligence causes the star to move by means of its moving toward the

prime mover. Now to move and not be moved, that Prime Mover must not be matter.

Now, all matter have to have form but not all form needs to have matter. Thus,

the prime mover is form without matter. If we substitute existence instead of

motion, we get a more modern proof that works along Hegel’s lines of God being

the Prime Idea that combines the opposites of Being and non-Being, i.e.,

Becoming — which answers the infinitesimal problem (for Becoming can only be on

an infinitesimal level, one dx at a time.)

·

This is

Spinoza's proof that God is one. Here Spinoza limits the Creator of each

universe, physical, spiritual, spiritual of spiritual etc., [horizontally], and

the first cause [vertically] to One, by the fact that only one substance can be

conceived with infinite attributes. That is, there is only one First Cause of

all the sets. The immediate level of spirituality above every level is referred

to as God in a borrowed way, since it is the manifestation of God, but not

really God, who is outside the set of all causes, but also the set of all

causes and the set of all the sets of all causes, etc...

PROP. XIV.

Besides God no substance can be

granted or conceived.

Proof. --

As God is a being

absolutely infinite, of whom no essence that must exist can be denied [ God is

a being absolutely infinite--that is, a substance consisting in infinite

attributes, of which each expresses eternal and infinite essentiality.] [

An

attribute is that which the intellect perceives as constituting the essence of

substance.]

and he necessarily exists (by Prop. xi.) [ God, or substance,

consisting of infinite attributes, of which each expresses eternal and infinite

essentiality, necessarily exists.] if any substance besides God were granted it

would have to be explained by some attribute of God, and thus two substances

with the same attribute would exist, which (by Prop. v.) [There cannot exist in

the universe two or more substances having the same nature or attribute.] is

absurd therefore, besides God no substance can be granted, or consequently, be

conceived. If it could be conceived, it would necessarily have to be conceived

as existent, but this (by the first part of this proof) is absurd. Therefore,

besides God no substance can be granted or conceived. Q.E.D.

Corollary I

.--Clearly, therefore: 1.

God is one, that is only one substance can be granted in the universe, and that

substance is absolutely infinite.

Corollary II

.--It follows: 2. That

extension and thought are either attributes of God or (by Ax. i.) accidents

(affections) of the attributes of God.

PROP. XV

. Whatsoever is, is in

God, and without God nothing can be, or be conceived.

Proof. --

Besides God, no substance

is granted or can be conceived (by Prop. xiv.)[By God, I mean a being

absolutely infinite--that is, a substance consisting in infinite attributes, of

which each expresses eternal and infinite essentiality.], that is (by Def.

iii.) nothing which is in itself and is conceived through itself. But modes (by

Def. v.) [Things which have nothing in common cannot be understood, the one by

means of the other the conception of one does not involve the conception of the

other.] can neither be, nor be conceived without substance wherefore they can

only be in the divine nature and can only through it be conceived. But

substances and modes form the sum total of existence (by Ax. i.), therefore,

without God nothing can be, or be conceived. Q.E.D.

Rabbi

Issac Luria says that the generations from Adam to Noah were evil and so were

reborn at the time of the flood to receive their punishment, in this world.

Similarly, the generations before the dispersion and the tower of Babylon.

Similarly, the generations before the destruction of the 1

st

Temple.

And similarly, the generations before the Holocaust.

·

The

purpose of the creation of the world is the revelation of the oneness of God.

This is

accomplished

by the trait of what one gives

is what one gets. By the rewarding of good and truth and punishment of evil is

revealed the oneness of God. This happens on every level, in every society, in

every level of existence. This is the process of sifting out of the bad, and

the bringing up of the good, in order to be included in the oneness of God.

The idea

of the creation of man is for someone for God to do good to. There was a basic

lack in the divine traits before the world was created. This lack was not in

the higher traits themselves but in the Royalty (the lowest) of the Infinite

one, i.e., in the revelation of the traits.

So, God

had to create man in order to have someone to do good to: and the highest good

is God himself. But, how can man have any connection with God himself!? So, God

created Free Will, so that man could choose God —this by choosing good from

evil — and thus have a connection with God — based on his own deeds and words,

thoughts and desires — not based on a free hand-out. This is in itself on the

level of Royalty, which needs to receive, and that was the problem in the 1

st

place. But now, man has united Royalty with the higher trait of giving, by

choosing God, and not needing a free-handout to receive his reward of the light

of God based upon his merits.

This is

based on the Ramchal, together with the beginning of the Eitz Chayim, and the

Lekutei Moharan — but with a bit of integration.

The idea

is: God fills all worlds and surrounds all worlds — so one must unite the

sparks of holiness in everything with the infinite presence of God himself by

choosing God in everything he does, says, or thinks, or desires — and thus

uniting himself and all creation with God. When one is united with God than he

too can create Godliness, and this is the 1

st

commandment in the

Torah of being fruitful and to multiply, and children and ideas, and music.

·

The

contradiction between absolute knowledge and free-will is that God knows what

one will cho

ose

not just from the future but from now (ie. not just

because He knows the future). This contradiction is the root of Quantum

Mechanics.

·

Ideas are

wave functions that travel at the speed of light and have all the

characteristics of a quantum wave. That's why it's important not to think about

your enemies badly so that your

s

and theirs wave function

doesn't mutually interfere and just darkness is left. Don't send your waves in

that direction at all, for their waves can't bother yours at all unless you do.

·

One can

combine two points of view into one by considering the combination of each

point in the first and the second and drawing a line through each of them into

the new space of the name 45. This is in the straight sephirot and the same can

be done in the circular sephirot.

·

The

uncertainty principle applies to all aspects of life and is the root of free

will. For instance the conflict between freedom of thought (thinking for

yourself) and listening to the wise. We find in the Torah itself this conflict,

for even though we are supposed to listen to the Sanhedrin, still there is a

whole section of the Torah which describes the types of sacrifice which must be

brought when the Sanhedrin makes a mistake. And the Sages say that if one knew

they were wrong, yet still acted on their opinion, he is responsible for his

own actions.

·

Ideas

rotating around a common axis will give off its rest energy and energy of

motion in the form of idea waves. That is the power

of t

he works of philosophy of Spinoza who takes a few basic

axioms and revolves them around each other until a whole work evolves out of it

-

which represents the energy of motion - for after

Spinoza was done, the idea

’s

implications of

the axioms were fixed in idea space. However, the rest energy continues to

affect

a larger circumference of people.

·

The book

Madregat HaAdam created a vast mass movement but disappeared in one generatio

n. This was

because it was built on one idea alone (absolute trust in

God) which is a great idea but doesn't give off much energy since it rotates on

its own axis, not around another major idea.

That is

the same problem with Rav Shik's books based only on the principle that nothing

exists besides God which is also good but again nothing comes of it because it

is only one axiom. (Most Christian books I've seen have the same problem except

for Thomas Aquines, who basically does the same thing as Spinoza.)

Rabbi

Nachman creates in every individual chapter a revolving system, and all the

systems revolve around a common set of basic axioms. I believe that the Bible

and Jesus represent one revolving system (on one axis God, and the basic 13

axioms of faith) and that is the reason for their power

).

God

created the world based on two principles, chaos and order, which stem from the

Divine names, 63 and 45. The purpose of creation is to integrate them and bring

them up to the name 72.

·

An old philosophy paper I wrote as a

teenager:

A.

“To examine an object pedantically is not to

think. It is an examination by a specific formula which has no bearing on the

idea itself. It is examination from a different viewpoint than that of the

idea's maker and cannot do (accomplish) anything. It is insensitivity to the

idea. It is lack of understanding. [For example] to examine myself from an

entirely psychological and rational point of view is not to understand myself.

B.

“Assuming that a

person's

essence is always good and that he can always choose what

course of action he will take, then the closer he gets to his soul, the more

the soul will control his will. And the more control the soul will have over

the will.

C.

Genius is a sign that one is in contact with

his soul.

D.

One can understand the logic of an idea, but

not its essence until he is one with the idea.

E.

The bricks of the universe are beauty, and

its blueprint is God. Beauty is the substance and God is the concept. [The idea

or the form in Plato's terminology]

.

F.

“But true thinkers think with concepts and

ideas with no root either in self or words or in logic. Pure thinking is just a

free interplay of concepts between the mind and the soul with only intuition

used to

choose

the good from the bad. If the ideas truly come from the

soul, then they will eventually fit into the world of logic either by the one

who

thought

it... or the idea will die until

another time to be given birth by another mind. Ideas in this form are truly

logical and not just rational.

G.

Logical thinking results in a creation of

value or of no value depending on the path of the logic taken by the mind. Many

paths may seem logical to the mind with only one resulting in some valid

result. To find that path one needs the help of the soul.

·

Zeno's

proof that there is no motion is that before an object can go any distance it

has to go half that distance. And before it can go that much it has to go a

half of the last amount. Thus, by an infinite progression it is impossible to

move since the object always has to travel an infinitesimal amount — and

infinitesimal amounts can't add up since you need an infinite amount of them to

add up to anything.

It has

seemed to me in general to answer Zeno's paradox to say that space is

quantized

. Just like there is no time below Plank time, there is no

space past a certain point. However, Calculus derives motion by reducing the

distance of the motion down to an infinitely small amount and by this it

derives the true equations of motion.

So

apparently there is a reality to an infinitesimal amount in the real world?

