
The idea

of the creation of man is for someone for God to do good to. There was a basic

lack in the divine traits before the world was created. This lack was not in

the higher traits themselves but in the Royalty (the lowest) of the Infinite

one, i.e., in the revelation of the traits.

So, God

had to create man in order to have someone to do good to: and the highest good

is God himself. But, how can man have any connection with God himself!? So, God

created Free Will, so that man could choose God —this by choosing good from

evil — and thus have a connection with God — based on his own deeds and words,

thoughts and desires — not based on a free hand-out. This is in itself on the

level of Royalty, which needs to receive, and that was the problem in the 1

st

place. But now, man has united Royalty with the higher trait of giving, by

choosing God, and not needing a free-handout to receive his reward of the light

of God based upon his merits.

This is

based on the Ramchal, together with the beginning of the Eitz Chayim, and the

Lekutei Moharan — but with a bit of integration.

The idea

is: God fills all worlds and surrounds all worlds — so one must unite the

sparks of holiness in everything with the infinite presence of God himself by

choosing God in everything he does, says, or thinks, or desires — and thus

uniting himself and all creation with God. When one is united with God than he

too can create Godliness, and this is the 1

st

commandment in the

Torah of being fruitful and to multiply, and children and ideas, and music.

·

The

contradiction between absolute knowledge and free-will is that God knows what

one will cho

ose

not just from the future but from now (ie. not just

because He knows the future). This contradiction is the root of Quantum

Mechanics.

·

Ideas are

wave functions that travel at the speed of light and have all the

characteristics of a quantum wave. That's why it's important not to think about

your enemies badly so that your

s

and theirs wave function

doesn't mutually interfere and just darkness is left. Don't send your waves in

that direction at all, for their waves can't bother yours at all unless you do.

