
are the two outer vessels that contain free thought; they

correspond to

Chaya

and

Yechida

. Reason and revelation (i.e., the

heart) should be able to work together but when there is a disagreement, then

obviously one of them is wrong. Reason then reigns usually tends to win out,

and the intuition or revelation is left in the spiritual universe. The

dichotomy of universities and religion (reason and revelation) is the dichotomy

between

chaos

and

correction

, and the goal is to bring the light

of chaos into the vessels of correction. Rabbi Nachman and the Rambam disagreed

whether logic is subjected to revelation or visa versa, but in fact there is no

disagreement. Each has its own area where it is qualified to judge.

·

The

spirit can only reveal things that are of the spirit. There is nothing but God,

so He permeates and is unified with the physical and spiritual universe so

God's presence in the physical universe is subject to logical proof which is

what Spinoza does. But he can't go beyond that into the spiritual realm which

works with mathematical principles but isn't subject to proof. That is the

result of the original condensing in which God removed the revelation and proof

of his presence from the empty space, and only as we progress through time does

God reveal his presence and proof of his Presence one level at a time — as

Rabbi Nachman comments on the empty space and relates levels of revelation to

the outer makifim (fields) in which one level at a time enters humanity. So at

least Spinoza got the first step.

·

“It takes

many years of sifting through false teachers to find a wise one. Don't be so

fast to give up the wise teachers of history for they have been sifted from

millions of false ones and their teachings have stood the test of the ages.” (Greenfield).

The Bible the Sutras, the Talmud, Jesus, and Socrates may seem to contradict

but in fact each sees a different aspect of and points to the same truth. Each

were digging up the building blocks of the final structure. (Not to say that

the structure is ever finished) Some people are content to poke around the

stones, and others to try to knock down someone else's stone I think it is

wiser to assemble them into one great building and then to ride the elevator to

the top to see further.

·

Nietzsche

was a spark of Jeremiah the prophet whose root is in pure Judgment. Since he
