Chapter 3 – The Song of

Philosophy

[MR1]

[MR2]

·

The

ultimate purpose in the creation of the world is the revelation of the oneness

of God. One central method of its accomplishment is by the universal trait of

reciprocity, i.e., the idea behind “what one gives is what one receives.”

By the

active “rewarding” of truth and goodness, and the “punishment” of evil, the

oneness of God is revealed. This happens in every society, in every level of

existence. This process can also be seen as the sifting out of the bad and

bringing up the good to be included in the oneness of God.

This

principle results in infinite chaos depending on any slight variation in

events. How the chaos here results in the oneness there is not known in

detail—an element of it may be what the sages have said: that the good suffer

in this world as punishment for their sin's which they have committed in this

life time or in previous life times so that when they get to the next world

they can receive the undiluted light of God with their loved ones, and the end

result of good being rewarded does not happen until the next world where the

oneness of God is revealed.

·

Because of the compassion of God, He created the world. For he

wanted to reveal His compassion, and there was no creation on whom would He

have to show his compassion. Therefore he made everything from the top of Emanation

to the center of the earth for this purpose,” — Lekutai Moharan

The idea

of the creation of man is for the expression of the goodness of God. For there

was a basic lack in the Divine traits before the world was created — the lack

of the revelation. This may tie in with Hegel’s idea that each trait implies

its opposite.

Another

way of understanding the “lack” in each trait in itself is that as long as it

is not being, it is lacking the

quality

of being used.

[9]

This understanding

leads one to assume that the Divine traits  creations, but essential aspects of

God. For example, to correct the two deficits of

goodness

and

wisdom

there was created the circular sephirot and the straight sephirot.
