
believe

it possible

for there to be an infinite progression of causes so you could never get to the

first cause, still, by that same reasoning nothing could move for it would need

to go back to an infinite number of causes to finally get to move. [This seems

to me to be like

Zeno's

paradox]. Thus, there

has to be a Prime Mover. But if it were moving then it also would need a mover.

Thus, the prime mover must move things without being moved itself. That is, by

causing motion by attraction rather than by propulsion. Attractive causes

operate on intelligences, so it is an intelligence that keeps a star in motion.

So, the intelligence causes the star to move by means of its moving toward the

prime mover. Now to move and not be moved, that Prime Mover must not be matter.

Now, all matter have to have form but not all form needs to have matter. Thus,

the prime mover is form without matter. If we substitute existence instead of

motion, we get a more modern proof that works along Hegel’s lines of God being

the Prime Idea that combines the opposites of Being and non-Being, i.e.,

Becoming — which answers the infinitesimal problem (for Becoming can only be on

an infinitesimal level, one dx at a time.)

·

This is

Spinoza's proof that God is one. Here Spinoza limits the Creator of each

universe, physical, spiritual, spiritual of spiritual etc., [horizontally], and

the first cause [vertically] to One, by the fact that only one substance can be

conceived with infinite attributes. That is, there is only one First Cause of

all the sets. The immediate level of spirituality above every level is referred

to as God in a borrowed way, since it is the manifestation of God, but not

really God, who is outside the set of all causes, but also the set of all

causes and the set of all the sets of all causes, etc...

PROP. XIV.

Besides God no substance can be

granted or conceived.

Proof. --

As God is a being

absolutely infinite, of whom no essence that must exist can be denied [ God is

a being absolutely infinite--that is, a substance consisting in infinite

attributes, of which each expresses eternal and infinite essentiality.] [

An

attribute is that which the intellect perceives as constituting the essence of

substance.]

and he necessarily exists (by Prop. xi.) [ God, or substance,

consisting of infinite attributes, of which each expresses eternal and infinite

essentiality, necessarily exists.] if any substance besides God were granted it

would have to be explained by some attribute of God, and thus two substances

with the same attribute would exist, which (by Prop. v.) [There cannot exist in
