
the universe two or more substances having the same nature or attribute.] is

absurd therefore, besides God no substance can be granted, or consequently, be

conceived. If it could be conceived, it would necessarily have to be conceived

as existent, but this (by the first part of this proof) is absurd. Therefore,

besides God no substance can be granted or conceived. Q.E.D.

Corollary I

.--Clearly, therefore: 1.

God is one, that is only one substance can be granted in the universe, and that

substance is absolutely infinite.

Corollary II

.--It follows: 2. That

extension and thought are either attributes of God or (by Ax. i.) accidents

(affections) of the attributes of God.

PROP. XV

. Whatsoever is, is in

God, and without God nothing can be, or be conceived.

Proof. --

Besides God, no substance

is granted or can be conceived (by Prop. xiv.)[By God, I mean a being

absolutely infinite--that is, a substance consisting in infinite attributes, of

which each expresses eternal and infinite essentiality.], that is (by Def.

iii.) nothing which is in itself and is conceived through itself. But modes (by

Def. v.) [Things which have nothing in common cannot be understood, the one by

means of the other the conception of one does not involve the conception of the

other.] can neither be, nor be conceived without substance wherefore they can

only be in the divine nature and can only through it be conceived. But

substances and modes form the sum total of existence (by Ax. i.), therefore,

without God nothing can be, or be conceived. Q.E.D.

Rabbi

Issac Luria says that the generations from Adam to Noah were evil and so were

reborn at the time of the flood to receive their punishment, in this world.

Similarly, the generations before the dispersion and the tower of Babylon.

Similarly, the generations before the destruction of the 1

st

Temple.

And similarly, the generations before the Holocaust.

·

The

purpose of the creation of the world is the revelation of the oneness of God.

This is

accomplished

by the trait of what one gives

is what one gets. By the rewarding of good and truth and punishment of evil is

revealed the oneness of God. This happens on every level, in every society, in

every level of existence. This is the process of sifting out of the bad, and

the bringing up of the good, in order to be included in the oneness of God.
