
·

God

created free-will so man could

choose

God, this by choosing good from

evil, and thus have a connection with God based on ones’ own deeds and words

and thoughts and desire, and not based on a free handout. To receive via a free

handout is from the level of

royalty

, whose nature is that it must

receive. This is what the problem was in the very beginning.

But now

man has united Royalty with the higher trait represented by giving through

choosing God and his reward of the light come through his own merits.

[10]

·

From the

idea that God fills all worlds and surrounds all worlds the idea becomes

apparent that one must unite the sparks of holiness in everything with the

infinite presence of God Himself by choosing God in everything he does, says,

thinks, or desires, and thus uniting himself and all creation with God. When

one is united with God then he too can create Godliness. This is indeed the 1

st

commandment in the Torah — to be fruitful and multiply, i.e., in children and

ideas, and music.

•

Pleasure

is on the level of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, and therefore not

good or bad in itself but dependent on what one uses it for. If one brings up

the sparks of holiness in that pleasure into holiness, he himself goes up and

the evil falls. Just saying a blessing has nothing to do with this. It depends

a lot on how he raises the children. If it's food it depends on what one does

with the energy. Pleasure for the sake of pleasure remains on the original

level and it falls into evil and becomes evil itself. Pleasure however for the

sake of God and done with attachment to God is like a sacrifice, and is on a

very holy level.

•

Allowing free thought is

important for ideas need room to flow, and when restricted like in a

constricted vessel, they cannot. Similarly, logic, in its purest form, also

limits free thought. Revelation also limits free thought--there are things

beyond the comprehension of the mind that only revelation can reveal.

So,

reason

and

revelation
