Chapter 3 - Sex

-

“For the gods are slow, though they are sure,

in visitation, when men scorn godliness and turn to frenzy.” — Oedipus At

Colonus by Sophocles

“Joy of life depends upon a certain spontaneity in regard to sex.

Where sex is repressed, only work remains, and a gospel of work for work's sake

never produced any work worth doing.” -- Bertrand Russell

·

There is

something about sex which reacts against a person when it is merely physical.

If it doesn't involve a spiritual bonding, it reacts. Sex demands to be treated

with respect and as the bonding of two souls into one. If not, it gets angry

like a jealous wife and exacts a price. Sex which is purely sensual spells the

end of the relationship.

·

There is

no such thing as free sex (even in marriage). When one doesn't sanctify himself

at that time, the price he pays is anger, i.e., he receives anger into his

soul. Sex with sanctity draws love, kindness and blessing into the world.

Sanctity in sex means the binding of the souls together and then bringing them

up to God. It has nothing to do with marriage.

·

Pleasure

is on the level of the tree of knowledge of good and evil and therefore not

good or bad in itself but dependent on what one uses it for. If one brings up

the sparks of holiness in that pleasure into holiness, he himself goes up and

the evil falls. Just saying a blessing has nothing to do with this. It depends

a lot on what one actually does with that pleasure. If it’s having children, it

depends on how he raises the children. If it's food, it depends on what one

does with the energy. Pleasure for the sake pleasure remains on the original

level and it falls into evil and becomes evil itself. Pleasure however for the

sake of God and done with attachment to God is like a sacrifice and is on a

very holy level.

·

In a time

that the matches aren't between true matches, God still draws the proper souls

by one soul in the world who is on the level of Joseph (the sephirah of

Foundation). This is

bechinas

(on the level of) what it says by Joseph

“the girls jumped over the wall” to see him as Rashi explains there and also

what it says by Rebbi Yochanan who waited outside the

mikvah

so the

women coming out from the mikvah would see him and draw the souls that came

into the world from the level of Joseph.

·

Sex when

it is an expression of Love is a

mitzvah

since all Love is of God. And

when it is for physical pleasure, it is a sin even though it is within marriage

since then it is from the

Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil

. The Sages

hint to this when they say only a disciple of a sage can eat meat since he

brings up the sparks of holiness in the meat to God. Also, they said a person

that marries the daughter of an earthly person transgresses the command “cursed

is he that lies with an animal.”

·

In a

relationship, if the female says “it's over”, IT’S OVER. since women don't want

the sex as much as the security which she obviously believes she has found in

another way... Also, they are closer to the evil side since their root is in

the lowest sephirah. Also, their

root is

related to

the sephirah of judgement which makes them prone to anger [i.e., pure evil].

Men are from the middle sephirah and thus want sex more and are less close to

the evil side for sex in itself isn't good or evil. It depends on what one

makes of it.

·

According

to the Talmud, “The man asks with his mouth and the woman in her heart,” i.e.,

the man actually has to ask for sex. This is opposed to modern ideas that the

man is supposed to beat around the bush. However, isn't asking for anything in

the category of idolatry?!

The Sages

say in another place, “one that asks for his portion is as if he stole it.” The

answer is that if when you ask you know that in truth, “there is nothing

besides Him,” and everything you see is simply the infinite light of God in

these garments before your eyes — or put simply, everything you see is God at

least as he manifests Himself to us. However, asking anything from someone that

in your mind isn't included in God [even if you know that their granting the

request is dependent on God] is idolatry. For that is actually the exact

definition of idolatry. The Torah doesn't deny that there are other gods or

higher angels appointed over the nations and over specific things like wisdom.

The Torah is full of the existence of them. But you can't serve them. [This

incidentally explains the verse there is nothing besides Him that Rabbi Nachman

said is literal. Now you could ask, couldn't it mean there are no gods besides

Him (as we find in the Torah the subject of a verb sometimes missing as Rashi

points out

often

)? The problem with that is that

there are other gods besides Him, so to speak, but they aren't

gods

but angels appointed over their specific tasks.

So, when it says there is nothing besides Him, it has to be taken literally,

that none of the things God created have any existence without Him. In a

practical vein the actual existence of matter is the condensed light of God. It

is not from the empty space but from the light that was drawn into Akudim, the

light returned up and the vessels stayed behind and thus became solidified.

Because

of the breaking of the vessels later on, the matter we see doesn't appear to

contain any of that light, as it would have — if not for the breaking of the

vessels. But in any case, the actual substance is from the light, not from the

empty space. I have thought however that in some way there is a relation to the

empty space, but it is probably not true. The real probable cause of the

solidification is the very reason why there was a creation in the first place,

i.e., the basic “lack” that was in the kindness of God before there was anyone

to do kindness to.

So, He

had to create separate beings from Himself in order to reward them with the

highest good, i.e., being one with Him. So, when you look at the world around

you it is accurate to conceive of it as the condensed light of God. To actually

receive the revelation of the light however is in the next world. This world is

only a preparation. So even the light that shines here is just to purify us for

that great light there. Meditation doesn't draw it. It merely helps one go into

oneself to discover who he is. There is no mental energy. All the metaphors in

this book are talking on higher spiritual levels, not the physical world.

The Life

force exists on one level, and the spirit on another, and the soul on another

etc... These levels are related only by the Strange Loops or some hidden

staircase from level to level. They are not accessible by any trick. God hates

tricks and He will never shine his light on anyone that thinks he can get it by

some trick, practice, or good deed, etc.

God's

light is a gift that may come once in a lifetime or stay awhile but it can

never be forced. What meditation can do is to bring one into his own vessels, and

to clean them out and polish them but it can't draw the light. If God wants to

pour in the water after you cleaned your vessel that is up to Him. Even the

mitzvot

of the Torah are to make us holy and to love and fear God, but they can't draw

God. As He said, “I will have mercy on him who I will have mercy upon.” — The

Strange Loop again.

