Chapter 2 – The Song of Faith

·

Faith is

a

force

that

encompasses various forms. In scientists, it

takes a hold of them, causing them to seem to understand the world; and for

mystics -- the understanding of God. Devout people are guided by a different

Divine trait than non-devout. So, for example, non-devout people, by trusting

in God might not get their needs fulfilled unless they actually do something

physical for it;

whereas

for devout people,

they might have all their needs fulfilled through only faith. It might actually

be the opposite of the Divine will for them to do something about it!

According

to the Jewish viewpoint, most spiritual systems represent a valid frame of

reference in the local sense, as long

as

they fulfill

certain criteria. For Jews then, it must not deny the commandments of the

Bible, and for non-Jews, the validity of the 7

-

Noahide

l

aws must be maintained.

This idea

is reflected in a certain book of a Jewish mystic who lived during the Middle

Ages. He stated that it is forbidden for a Jew or Christian to convert to the

other's

faith since “he just mixes up the flow.” One may learn

from the other’s but not convert.

[4]

I believe, however, that all faiths hold mistakes that should be ultimately

corrected.

·

Today, it

is actually possible to test the validity of many statements of the Sages, for

they make empirically verifiable claims, i.e., certain actions causally

precedes certain results. With today’s methods of statistical analysis, it

would be a simple matter to conduct research on such issues.

·

I believe

that religion actually has little effect on

one's

character –

and that is even if the power of

one's

faith

is real and sincere. The Bible is only a tool for those who want to improve. It

is a guide, or map, for ones improvement in many regards, but it is not a bus

to take you there.

The

characters of good and evil are real, and religion has no effect on them. In

fact, while giving those who want to be good a way to do so, it also gives

those who want to simply make money, also a way to do so. And those that are

evil in other ways will find a way to be aided by the religion.

[5]

The

first authorities

[6]

have said that one needs to combine faith and reason. The Lekutai Moharan (Volume

1, Chapter 1) also echoes this when it says that you need faith and wisdom.

According to the

Pardes

, wisdom cannot refer to the Torah

because the Torah is actually Binah in the clothing of

Glory. This may be visualized as follows:

o

ne

needs two

sephirot

revolving around each other to create radiation and

to

affect

character.

·

One can't

help but notice that religions (

T

orah,

B

uddhism, the

S

utras,

C

hristianity,

I

slam)

generally deal a lot with how to escape from suffering and come to happiness

(in this world and the next). This can be understood if you visualize the

religions as occupying the 7 lower

sephirot

, on the

y

⎯

axis. But

once you get up above religion into the 3 higher sephirot, the air has cleared,

so to speak, and we are closer to the light coming in from the upper–vertical

direction. Since good and evil are represented by the x–axis, even though we

may be lying above religion, we are neither good nor evil. The battle is not

between good and evil but rather between truth and mistake.

Perhaps

this explains the opinion of the Rambam that ‘the suffering of Job came because

he did not learn science and philosophy.’ Although he was righteous, he didn't

seek knowledge. Religion is on the level of the 7 lower sephirot which when one

gets involved in automatically causes him suffering. Usually he seeks for

answers in the religion, i.e., via a rabbi or a clergyman within the religion,

but from a higher perspective all knowledge is one.

·

Since

every person's soul is different, the laws of religion can never fit perfectly

with him. Accordingly, by nature, the results of one following the laws of any

religion, if applied with rigor, will then follow patterns of chaos – according

to each individual. If however the laws are applied in a more loose fitting

way, the affects on the person, following patterns of probability, will average

out—like the

binomial distribution

.

[7]

·

There is a basic distinction between the humanistic view and the

religious: namely, the humanistic view places great value on the concept of

freedom whereas the religious view does not consider it at all. The reason for

this may be reflected in that the source of the religious point of view is the

world–of–correction

,

tikun–brudim,

and the source of the humanistic point of view is the

world of

world–points

,

nekudim

. The ultimate correct way is to

have them included in the other.

[8]

·

The main problem

with the worldview of religious fanatics is the vigor with which they insist

just how right they are. If one of their tenets is proved to be a mistake, say

through science, it is science then that has to be rejected. This can not be

held consistently. Those who believe have to have a high level of cognitive

dissonance

going on. Rabbi Nachman says that only faith combined with

knowledge is sturdy, and can not fall.

·

Every

religion has two aspects to it. The first aspect is the faith or individual

commitment and the search for God. This can be seen as being on the right of

the y-axis. The other aspect is that of organization (which is on the left of

the y-axis). Those who occupy the latter area are left brain organizers, and

not right-brain creative thinkers.

Organized

religion

reflects the idea of neurons being connected in a

particular way and solidified—in a way that prohibits freethinking.

Paradoxically that is how Liberalism, Conservatism, Democracy,  Communism etc.,

have all become

religions

.

I

believe, though, that if one learns enough and absorbs the learning into their

deep mind and soul, the force can reach critical mass and be able to break

through and produce new ideas. But most people reside on the subcritical level

and thus are merely on the “religious” level — spewing out what they have heard

(as Lucas wrote in 1961).

·

There

exists one

principle

to

morality and of reaching God and this is

individual

prayer

. Each religion, when it affects those who are searching for God, is

inevitably good — for the person would usually find their way to prayer. The

effect of religion, however, on those not searching for God but for money or

power is bad, because they try to impose their will on others and thus

interfere with the harmonies.

·

There is

a special method of studying that is advocated by Rabbi Nachman. The method

involves reading every page forwards and backwards. To learn in this way takes

tremendous faith and one sees the results only after many years.

·

One can

never really change one

’

s

religion

. Religion is

the

accumulation

of stories, songs and

religious general

consciousness

that one gains

as a child. If one “changes

” his

religion

all he is doing in fact is silencing himself — and say the

person goes into politics he might bring into the new group ideas left over

from his religious mindset — ideas that don’t belong there — ideas such as the

necessity of his way of life upon

all

(or death).

The

Catholics were very clever when they decided to incorporate various elements in

the religions that they conquered instead of banishing them. The Rabbi’s today

also, should

not

dismiss

anything of the culture of those that come to

them, unless he is keenly aware of what is involved (and what are the negative,

and acceptable elements in it).

The

Rambam explains why the Torah required sacrifices. And also regarding how some

of the philosophical tradition came to be incorporated in Judaism by the Sages

and the Rambam was also through this means. And today, the tendency of the

rabbis to take out of the Torah (through ignorance) the things that generations

ago were acceptable, only leads to the destruction of Torah life.

It is

obvious to me the grand departure from the ancient Torah way of life by the

Jews was the result of the rabbis not in being able to evaluate what really was

acceptable in tradition, and what (of what was new) was compatible.

