Chapter 2   - Roots of Science

Introduction

Science

and Kabbalah are two distinct fields with apparently no relationship between

them. Yet Einstein wrote that the object of all science is to coordinate our

experiences and to bring them into a logical system. He also said that there is

no real qualitative difference between those sense perceptions which are common

to different individuals (and in that sense impersonal) and those which are

experienced by only one person. Those which are common to different people are

really no more factual than those which are experienced by one. Kabbalah

involves personal experience which however can be verified by its effects in

the inter-personal world.

It's my

hope that this section will coordinate experience (spiritual and scientific)

and bring them all into a logical system.

It is

also my hope to show how Science and Kabbalah can illuminate the other as long

as each keeps its respective parameters in mind. When either forgets it's

boundaries it usually does notoriously badly. Physics describes reality based

on models taken from every day experience and these models work. I am trying

here to find what the true inner model of Physics is by using the Kabbalah,

i.e., I'm trying to find the spiritual realities upon which the physical world

is based.

·

The two

kinds of circular and straight sephirot are the root of the uncertainty of the

continuum hypothesis (that Cantor hypothesized that there is no set that has a

cardinal number between

a

0

(the cardinal number of elements of the set of all natural

numbers) and “c” (the cardinal number of the set of all rational and irrational

numbers) where each kind of valid math can be built on either opposite

assumption.

·

The

circular sephirot have a base of p. In turn the root of that is the contradiction

of the emptiness of the empty space though it must have the presence of God in

it. (The emptiness is Godliness, but we can't find God there.)

·

Perhaps

gravity has a counterpart like the electric force with the magnetic force --

and that something could cause a red shift in gravity waves like gravity causes

for light waves. [In General Relativity, gravity is conservative, like the

electric force. I wonder about a possible counterpart like the magnetic force. At

any rate, since everything in creation seems to contain Strange Loops, I would

imagine that the universe does form a loop and though gravity doesn't form

loops on a small scale perhaps it does on a large scale. Perhaps this could

explain the fact that the galaxies don't fly apart. If gravity is in fact like

the electromagnetic force, if it would change over the course of time, you

would get its counterpart. Now any accelerating system like the earth and the

sun [or the galaxy] is changing over time, so perhaps this system is emitting

some other type of waves besides gravitational waves. Yet since the density of

the galaxy is so small, we just don't notice it.

·

The light

of the sephirot isn't all the same, but the light of 52 is a spiritual-electric

field and the light of 45 is a magnetic field and together they create a

spiritual electromagnetic wave by the oscillation of the name 52 at the top of

the empty space.

·

[IMAGE: image036.gif]

is an inverse square law

just like

[IMAGE: image037.gif]

because speed is a

measure of space-time like length is a measure of space. So, the force that

turns energy to matter is an inverse square force. (So, if c was a variable,

the less it would be, the more mass you would have, so c

2

takes the

place of r

2

in a higher realm. But what would come after that a

2

,

the acceleration of light? And after that, I guess, would be the change in the

acceleration with respect to time, and so for every dimension up you add.

·

Current

is described by a differential equation that has a solution only with a complex

number. Perhaps that is because mass has a complex part of itself as in

[IMAGE: image038.gif]

.

That is

the same part that can travel faster than light.

Mass that

is infinite can travel at the speed of light and that mass is

[IMAGE: image039.gif]

, i.e.,

the first

uncountable type of infinity that can be contained within some

limit, like

[IMAGE: image040.gif]

.

It is

probably obvious to most scientists

,

but since I

haven't seen this mentioned anywhere, I think it is proper to say this. The

inverse square laws are a result of the fact that the surface area of the

sphere is

[IMAGE: image041.gif]

, i.e., since the force

coming out of any object is diluted over the area of a sphere the further out

you go, gravity or the electromagnetic force must be reduced by a factor of r

2

.

Every

physical body has extension into imaginary space (not the fourth dimension, but

into space times 'I'). This makes every mass, even if in a random chaotic

shape, symmetrical. If you stop the vibrations at the nodes, you increase the

frequency which increases the energy. This particularly should apply to the

strings of which the atom is made. Also, to the galactic strings, so that at

places where the galaxies don't form there should be an increase of energy.

[Looking at this now I am not so sure for wasn't that the independent variable

idea with the electron i.e., how someone wanted to explain the uncertainty of

electron, and I seem to recall that was refuted experimentally. However, the

imaginary numbers do seem to pop up in the most common places like electric

current]

·

The order

of adding up the electrons to the chemical elements and the order of the

unification table and the order of the table for proving the equivalence of the

set of positive rational fractions with all natural numbers [Cantor's diagonal

method] and the way of doing certain continuous integrals like <???>

ò

(x

3

)(

e

x

)

is the same pattern of the parallel 45-degree lines through the

table:

[IMAGE: image042.jpg]

The root

of this is the fact that at the beginning before the correction the order of

the worlds was horizontal, then it changed to vertical e.g., the mitzvah of

teffilin had all the other mitzvot in it, like Shabbat of tefillin, prayer of

tefillin etc. Then it was changed to take the tefillin of all the other mitzvot

and put them into tefillin so that tefillin is only tefillin, i.e., tefillin of

Shabbat, tefilin of prayer etc., this happened in all the world so the order of

all the worlds was switched. The sixteen levels of this GUT relate to the

sixteen components of the stress energy tensor (even though it reduces down to

ten components) which is related on the next parallel level of the Typo-genetic

Code by which each pair of ACGT codes for an amino acid, thus;

Tab

[IMAGE: image043.gif]

=

A

C

G

T

A

cuts

dels

swir

C

mvs

mvls

copr

offl

G

inas

incr

ingr

intl

T

rpyr

rpul

lpyl

lpul

Each

level of the hierarchy of Creation is based on similar matrices. This is why

the diagonal functions keep showing up like the trace [for Cantor], the

determinant [for the volume of the universe], characteristic polynomials, the

relation between each level of creation is thus;

If A is

the matrix of the Genetic Code and B is that of the table of the elements, then

A = P

- 1

BP. Now

we have to find Matrix P to get the connection, and P

-1

represent

the two Strange Loops on every level like the two ladders of the double helix

of the DNA.

Now we

can learn from this that if f[B]=f[A], then f[T] = f[T]s. So, the function that

works between levels can also work on the same level on the inverse base of

that level. The question is what operations does this describe for TNT or the

Genetic Code or Emanation Creation Formation and Space-time?

The

diagonal argument seems to run thought creation as we see above, [i.e., the

matrices of every level seem to have this weird affinity with the diagonal] I

would like to suggest. then the Genetic Code and this GUT and the table of

elements can all be represented by a diagonal matrix such that.

T(u

1

) = k

1

u

1

T(u

2

) = k

2

u

2

...................

T(u

n

)=  k

n

u

n

Thus, the

eigenvectors u

11

, u

2...

u

n

are linearly

independent. This suggests that every substance, life, atoms, etc., are

four-dimensional creatures but the elementary particles of the GUT scheme are

five dimensional.

Thus, it

seems that there was some flattening out process between the creation of the

elementary particles and the forming of atoms.

·

Perhaps

the universe is expanding inside another 5-D universe which is expanding inside

a 6-d universe etc., to infinity.

·

Perhaps

the physical expansion of the Universe in 3-Dimensional space is due to the

fact that the universe is described by a matrix. The determinant of that matrix

gives the volume of the universe.

·

Space is

a set of infinities (Cantor's Infinities), (these are the substances of

Spinoza). This is the deeper meaning of the infinities of the electron.

·

The 1

st

100 elements were divided into 10 sephirot, e.g., hydrogen is

royalty

of

royalty, helium is

Foundation of Royalty

. (After the correction helium

is

Royalty

of

Foundation

.)

·

It seems

possible that the 12 elementary substances that

The Book of Creation (sefer

Yetzirah)

refers to, are the six quark flavors and six leptons. The 8-gluons

of the strong interaction plus the two gluons of the electro­-weak interaction

(the photon and weak boson), are the light of the sephirot of the physical

universe. It’s amazing that in the

Eitz Chayim

, in the description of

akudim

,

we find light interacting with light which predicted the existence of gluons

besides the photon. The 6 quarks are the 6 sephirot of

Zeir Anpin

,

cgt + nhi

= ud + cs + tb

(Kindness)(Judgement)(Beauty)+(Victory)(Splendor)(Foundation)=(up)(down)+

(charm)(strange)+(truth)

(beauty) [Or in the new notation (top0(bottom)] and the six leptons are the 6

sephirot of nukba, while the light is drawn from the higher sephirot. Another

way of looking at it is the particles correspond to the right hand and left

hand sephirot i.e.,

wisdom

,

kindness

,

victory

= top, charm

up and understanding, power, splendor = strange, down, bottom and the middle

interaction gluons are the middle mediating sephirot.

·

The

wave-particle duality is from the root of the circular and straight sephirot

which led to the two worlds Akudim (streaked-waves) and Nekudim

(dotted-particles), which in turn led to the doubts that arise in the raisha

delo isyada (the peak that is impossible to know, which the

Eitz Chayim

goes into great length to explain what the doubts that are that are there. It's

interesting to note the doubts of the uncertainty principle arise from the wave

particle duality and the doubts in the unknown peak arise from the duality of

the streaked and spotted worlds.

·

Electro-magnetic

waves are a combination of the light of 45 and 52 -- (45 is the electric part).

·

The

Lorentz transformation is identified in terms of 10 parameters:

·

The relative velocity.

·

The 3 top sephirot.

·

The angles between the spatial coordinates

(the 3 middle sephirot), and

·

The space-time coordinates of the origin of

one coordinate system with respect to the other (the 4 lower sephirot).

Since

velocity corresponds to the 3 higher sephirot, the velocity of light is the

same in all frames of reference -- since it is above space and time. (The

concept of the higher 3 sephirot being above space and time is a very common

concept in Kabbalah). (To the photons themselves time doesn't move, all space

is one point, and its equivalent mass at that velocity is undefined.) (It's

also well known that the 3 middle ones refer to the directions of space.)

·

The first

100 elements are divided into the 10 sephirot of rulership of the physical

universe e.g., hydrogen is rulership of rulership. Helium is the foundation of

rulership. But after the correction helium is rulership of foundation, etc.,

and the order is vertical, not horizontal (as Rabbi Sar Shalom Sharabi explains

in

Nahar Shalom

)

·

7 rows of

the periodic table correspond to the seven levels surrounding royalty, and the

four orbitals (s, p, d, f) are the four letters of the Ineffable Name.

·

The 10 sephirot

of electro-magnetic radiation are:

1.

Gamma rays.

2.

X- rays.

3.

Ultra-violet is the first three sephirot.

4.

The visible spectrum is parallel to the 6 sephirot

of Beauty (violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange). Red, infrared and

radio waves are Royalty.

All these

are the sephirot of the light while the elements are sephirot of the vessels.

·

When we

view the world from the Unification Table, we see that each particle can be

reduced to some set of 5 binary numbers just like in any computer, and the

state of the universe is given by the fields associated with these particles

(as Frank Wilczek writes in

Longing for the Harmonies

). This is because

the 10 sephirot are really 5 (as Rabbi Chayim Vital explains at the end of the

Eitz Chayim that there really are only 5 but they are known as 10 for the 6

th

of Zeir Anpin are really just characteristics of Beauty -- not individual sephirot).

And each universe consists of combinations of the 5 sephirot. So, the physical

universe is an intricate “computer” program of the world of Formation on the

“computer” of Creation, and so on.

·

There is

a spiritual space and time just like the physical. The laws of the spiritual

space-time continuum are the Divine Names and unifications which are parallel

to the mathematical formulas in the physical realm. (This explains the idea

that Yom Kippur is above time i.e., the spiritual time-flow, not the physical.

Also, this explains different statements of the Sages about the universe, which

seem to contradict the physical one (as the Ramchal says).

Why then

is math and physics considered holy to the Rambam? — because if it is connected

to fear of God it is the vessel for the higher holiness, and the explanation of

the higher sepherot, and the singularity of the infinite light in the center of

the empty space makes it the center of the physical realm.

Also,

since Royalty is connected directly to the Crown, when it goes up it is

immediately attached to the Crown — similar to the fact that the highest

holiness can be reached only in the physical world by doing the physical

commandments, not in the higher worlds, for only here shines the light of the

Crown.

Also, the

hidden holiness of science and math stems from the fact that the formulas are

the Divine unifications of the circular sephirot.

·

Darkness,

which the Talmud implies is a creation in itself refers to the electro-magnetic

field that permeates the universe which isn't ether but a mathematical field

which obeys Einstein's laws and has a separate existence in itself besides

light — (see Looking for the Harmonies by Frank Wilczek, p.g. 346 note 161).

·

It's

amazing how in nature totally unconnected events have the same laws connecting

them, like the number of ways “h” heads will appear if we toss a coin “n” times

which is:

†

[IMAGE: image044.gif]

which is

different than the number of combinations of n things taken h at a time  but

both have the exact same equation:

†

[IMAGE: image044.gif]

Another

example is cosh  xdx  =  sinh x + c  and cos xdx = sin x + c .

Even  though

†

[IMAGE: image045.gif]

have been unconnected until Euler

found the connection. The new ideas in the field of chaos also illustrate this.

These are indicative of inner connections that cause dissimilar things to be

connected by the same laws. [Something connected with this is the fact that the

Schwarzschild radius comes out to be exactly the same as if it was formulated

in Newtonian terms thus:

1/2mv

2

=

GmM/r,so

R=2GM/c2]

[Also in

basic first year Physics, some of the laws of different systems turn out

identical, both in mechanics and in electro-magnetism.]

·

The

microscopic world is based on probability while the macroscopic world is based

on classical physics. The connection is that between the world of chaos and of

correction. Chaos is the higher root but then from the elements of chaos

(atoms) God created the macroscopic world based on correction. Spiritually also

we are only microscopically subject to the laws of chaos but our macroscopic

souls are based on correction. So its true that individual prayer depends on

not being observed only on the higher level of chaos but there still is a level

of correction where flow exists despite being observed.

·

The

number of laws of the Torah (10 general, 613 specific) equals the number of the

components of the field of the empty space (i.e. 10 sephirot, and 613 parts of

the soul). Of the Ten Commandments only the last 6 determine the rate of

spiritual change while the first 4 limit the initial conditions, but allow for

any arbitrary rate of change (this is if you go by the divisions of the Hebrew

Bible and count every paragraph as one commandment. This is actually how the

Catholic Church divides them.)) The reason for the division 6 and 4 is that the

letter He (the 5 colors) divides up into a Vav (6) and a Dalet (4) as it comes

down through the world of waves (Akudim). Then the Vav is divided into two

Vavs, 6 quarks and 6 leptons. From here it seems that the 6 quarks and leptons

come from the 6 field equations of General Relativity that determine future

events.

·

The

determinant of the matrix that determines the universe isn't equal to zero, so

that matrix has to have a unique solution — and so it has to have the same

number of variables as equations. I think that gives a 4x4 matrix, since the

variables are the position in space and time.

·26

The

inverse-square laws of the universe come as one equation:

KMm + G M m m + (some constant for the weak force) M m + (some

constant for the strong force) M m=r

2

[This is the equation of a 4D

sphere].

·

“When a

rotating black hole forms the outer horizon it settles like a quivering bubble

toward the ultimate stable state represented by Kerr's solution to Einstein's

equations. This quivering of the outer horizon produces ripples in space-time,

gravitational waves, that spread both outward and inward. The ones that fall in

are blue shifted. Since

[IMAGE: image046.gif]

, the inflow of blue shifted gravitational radiation

that carries energy will produce an increase in the mass inside the black hole,

increasing a core mass that starts out with just five times the mass of the sun

going to

10

57

times the mass of the entire universe.

This

can't reach the outer universe, but at the big crunch when all the black holes

merge, such intense gravitational fields are involved that the whole universe

will collapse to the Plank scale. The rest of the collapse takes only

10

-43

seconds (Plank time).

At that

time the Bekenstein-Hawking formula for the entropy of the black hole becomes

meaningless and the total entropy is reduced drastically.

At the

same time, because there is no duration less than

10

-43

seconds (just like there is no distance shorter than

10

-33

centimeters),

the collapsing universe 10

-43

seconds away from the singularity

bounces back to become an expanding universe (since this doesn't defy entropy).

This

does away (almost) with the problem of the buildup of entropy from one cycle of

an oscillating universe to the next. But there still is a small buildup of

entropy from one cycle to the next. It seems possible that the origins of the

universe can be traced back through successively shorter cycles to some initial

tiny seed, a baby universe produced by a quantum fluctuation out of nothing at

all”.

-- Unveiling The Edge of Time,

by John Gribbin

“And God said let there be light, and there was light.” -

-

Genesis 1:3

·28

DpxDt³(h/4p)

is also a quality which is impossible to know the exact amount. This may relate

to uncertainty of momentum or time. For the uncertainty of momentum is

inversely proportional to p.

·

The speed

of light is the same for all observers because it is the speed of time through

the 5th dimension.

·

The idea

of the four elements of air, fire, water and ground is quite literal (but also

simply means the states of energy, gas, liquid and solid. The Kabbalah, when it

took over this idea from the Greeks, meant it in a different way than the

Greeks, i.e., that the four letters of the Ineffable Name permeate every aspect

of creation. So, on every level there is a division into four parts which are

really 8 because the Kabbalah puts together the Ineffable Name with Adonai e.g.,

each of the four represent a state, but also represent the actual substances

that make up fire or water. I would like to suggest my own four primordial

substances that existed in the early universe quarks, leptons, photons, gluons

(ground, water, fire, air).

·

I would

like to suggest that String Theory has its roots in the four flows coming from Adam

Kadmon: notes, vowels, crowns and letters, -- e.g., the Crown of Wisdom are

musical notes, and the nine lower

sephirot

are the vowels, and the Crown

of Understanding are the crowns of the letters, and the lower nine sephirot are

letters.

Now all

of these four levels are in the form of letters, but the letters of the Crown

of Wisdom are in the form of musical notes. The crowns themselves are letters

in the form of the circular notes e.g.

[IMAGE: image047.gif]

i.e.,

closed strings -- the open strings are vowels and crowns. This works amazingly

well, for it is a great principle in kabbalah that each particle in the

physical realm contains a letter. When we find that the letters themselves come

in this way, it seems to be a confirmation of string theory in Kabbalah, though

it is far from confirmed in the physical realm. [I know that looks suspiciously

like the tertiary structures of the proteins.]

·

This is

probably superfluous to mention but I find it very interesting that the DNA

molecule have 26 parts which is the numerical value of the Four letter name of

God

éä”åä

which relates to the sepherah of Beauty which is the

sepherah of Man. The bases GTCA clearly are the four letters Aleph Dalet Nun

Yod, thus:

[IMAGE: image048.gif]

And their

inner root is Yod He Vav He and the specific shape of the letter Aleph

determines the structure of the DNA, i.e., the bottom “kotz” is the base, or

Malchut... [The Vav is an extended Yod.] The fifteen operations are the

numerical value of the first two letters

é”ä.

Now, here the connections are clear, but

what would be the result of knowing this I don't know.

I suspect

that with this knowledge each discipline can teach about the other, but this

job is usually left for the discoverer of the idea itself. Each nucleotide is

made up of three letters which correspond to the division of the name 72 into

groups of three letters each:

[

{acid(ACGT), base(phosphate), sugar(ribose)} = {judgement, beauty, kindness}.]

There are

10 nucleotides per revolution which corresponds to the  10 letters of the name

45. The DNA is Kindness and Judgement together [the name 72 and 42, each

containing ten four-letter names as the inner light].

Out of

this combination comes the mRNA [beauty, the name 22]. It goes through the

three lower sephirot Eternity, Splendor, Foundation -- and out comes Royalty: the

proteins.

·33

Even

though there is no known way of summing up all infinitely many Feynman diagrams,

to get an expression for a fully renormalized electron, I think the secret may

be contained in an idea along these lines: the area under the curve of y=1/x is

finite even though it is infinitely long i.e.,

[IMAGE: image049.gif]

. Thus, there is a way

for the strange loops that encompass creation to be brought down to one point

though we may not know what it is.

·

The five

Peano Axioms

[12]

capture the essence of natural numbers as the axioms of Euclid capture the

essence of Plane Geometry. After one has them, he can theoretically build up by

axioms and rules of logic the complete system. These axioms are the atoms of

the system and correspond to the five

partzufim

[forms] of Crown,

Father, Mother, Son, Daughter. The five axioms of Human behavior are the last

five of the Ten Commandments. [This is in accordance with the Rambam's way of

looking at the commandments as having their reality and essence in pure logic. According

to him, the commandments have a reality separate from the fact that they are

written in the Torah -- for even if they weren't we would have to obey them

from reason. Thus, I am inclined to believe that these last five are axioms in

the sense that transgressing them evokes a bad reaction on a person as a law of

nature. Thus, even in cases where one thinks he has some permission from the

Oral Law, I think one shouldn't depend on it.

·

I think

gravity is simply an inverse rubber band, i.e., matter pulls space-time out of

shape. But instead of the distortion in shape pulling things apart it pushes

them together. [I also think the electro-magnetic field is the same thing].

[IMAGE: image050.jpg]

Chapter 3 – Torah Ideas

·

And God said,

“let there be light and there was light.” That is the thread of his infinite

light which shone into the darkness of the empty space.

And God

said, “Let there be a firmament,” which was the roof top of the empty space to

divide between his infinite light, and the empty space.

The

waters above the empty space I don't know. The waters below are the space-time

continuum.

The seven

days of creation are the seven circles of light before the straight light was

created.

The

luminaries are wisdoms letting in God's infinite light, through the firmament

into the empty space.

·

The

non-Jews at the time of Mordechai and Ester: The 1

st

verse says they

became Jewish because the fear of the Jews fell upon them, i.e. the fear of

that which the Jews fear fell upon them, i.e. fear of the punishment of God. A

later verse says they became Jewish because the fear of Mordechai fell upon

them, i.e. that fear that Mordechai feared, i.e. fear and awe of the greatness

of God.

·

“The king

of Sodom said to Abraham give me the soul and the money take for yourself”, i.e.,

the evil inclination offers one lots of money as long as he sells his soul.

·

God said

to Abraham go from your land from your birthplace and your father's house to

the land I will show you, i.e., from the 3 dimensions of his world into the 4th

dimension. Later, this actually occurred as the sages say on the verse, “and He

took him outside,” i.e., out of the 3D of this world. (This idea is hinted to

in one of Rabbi Nachman's stories.)

·

The trait

of Abraham is kindness. Therefore, his test was to see if he could be cruel in

a case where God demanded it. The trait of Jacob is truth, therefore his test

was to see if he could lie in the case where God demanded it. For Gods will is

the definition of truth and kindness. — so, when God commands a cruel deed that

deed is by definition kind. That is why the verse attributes kindness to

Abraham, because he was willing to be cruel when God demanded it. So, when he

was kind we know the kindness was real because it was connected to God. The

same goes for Jacob.

·

Abraham

could be a Lamdan [dialectic Talmudic scholar] when he wanted to. He said, “She

is my sister,” even though he had to stretch the truth beyond recognition to

say so. But when God told him “Bring up Issac as a burn offering,” in which

case he could have said it means bring up, i.e., put him on the alter and then

take him down — which was in fact the final intention. But when it came to a

commandment of God he didn't try to find a way out by using semantics.

·

How did

Esther know on the 2nd day to ask the King her request and not the 1

st

?

Because on the 1st day he asked “What is your request, Esther,” but on the 2nd

day he asked  “What is your request, Queen Esther?”

·

On the 3

rd

day (the 3

rd

trait Beauty — the 3

rd

day when the Torah

was given) Esther (the Divine Presence) stood before the inner house of the

King (the singularity of infinite light in the center of the empty space). She

was wearing the surrounding light so the King was pleased with her. He reached out

with the golden rod (the thin beam of his infinite light). She touched it and

was saved.

·

Every

verse in the Torah is a matrix by which the subject of that verse comes into

being. A matrix is an array of numbers, each representing the value of a

variable. These variables can be algebraic, here I mean the term to be applied

to spiritual variables and variable equations in the creation.

·

On Rosh

HaShanah there is a new Big Bang due to the reversing of Einstein's equations

for a black hole. On Yom Kippur time stands still because the light from Rosh

HaShanah gets to the bottom of the empty space where there is the singularity.

So, as a result of repentance one should experience a new birth.

·

The days

of creation are actually the 7 divine traits and not time at all. Only in the

lower garden of Eden did time pass. In the upper garden of Eden it is still

Friday, the day Adam was thrown out. After Adam was thrown out he began to

measure time at the rate of the physical universe. This is not dependent on the

‘Shemita opinion.’ It's just that in the higher and lower worlds time passes at

different rates — and in Atzilus there is no time at all. However, this can go

along with the Shemita opinion — for as time went slowly in Gan Eden, billions

of years passed in the physical universe.

(The

Shemita opinion puts us in the 4th cycle of 7000 year periods each of which has

a 1000 year day. This is the opinion of Rabbi Issaac of Acco who lived about

800 years ago. It's interesting that this opinion corresponds to modern

astronomy). However, if we accept that Rabbi Nachman objected to the Shemita

principle then it is possible that the time axis of the physical universe was

simply folded up into a little ball of string where theoretically you could

have miles of string in the distance of a few inches. The Shemita idea seems to

be supported by the fact that the Torah says that first God created heaven and

earth without saying how long that took. Then it goes through a different world

of creation in which there was a spiritual garden of Eden that Adam was placed

in. This isn't in the physical universe at all. Then, it says he was thrown out

of the garden of Eden and into the physical world which had been created before

that. So, an honest look at the Torah shows that it never even implies anywhere

how long the creation of the physical universe was.

·

The

contradiction between the Divine fore-knowledge and free will is that God knows

what one will chose not just from the future but from now (i.e. not just

because He knows the future). This contradiction is the root of Quantum

Mechanics.

·

Creativity

on the right side of the brain is from the

sepherah

of Wisdom. Order is

from the left from the sepherah of Understanding. Logical creativity which

relates to order, and a deeper creativity, is the combination of the two called

Knowledge — but all three permeate the entire body as it says in Drush HaDaas

at the end of the Eitz Chayim.

The

deeper creativity is much more covered, and with the vessel of Eternity Splendor

and Foundation of Understanding and Eternity, Splendor and Foundation of Wisdom.

(This last comment is referring just to Emanation, which is different than the

whole picture referred to in Drush HaDaas.) Thus, we find creative people who

aren't smart — because smartness in general is from the sepherah of

understanding which is open and quick to understand. But the deeper sepherah of

Wisdom is slow and not quick to understand, but after a long process of

absorbing the idea, it is able to create something totally new — which the left-brain

people reject, because it's too off-beat for them. Thus, we find that Einstein

was a slow learner.

·

Everything

under the level of the lower six sephirot (which are opposites) turns into its

opposite and then back again, in constant oscillation. So we find the

enlightened Islam of the middle ages becoming the barbaric Islam of today, and

the dark Christianity of the Middle Ages becoming the loving Christianity of

today. The same loving Chasidut of the Baal Shem Tov has become the fascist

Chasidut of today. Only by one rising up to the level of the 3 first sephirot

can one escape this pattern. I think science is in its root on that level (i.e.

what the sages call the higher wisdom) However when science falls from its

higher root it can become just a tool for evil (the Torah is on the level of

Beauty one of the lower sephirot.)

·

When the

angel called out, “Abraham Abraham” and he said “here I am” and he said “put

out not your hand to the child, and do nothing to him for now I know that you

fear God, and you have not withheld your son, your only one from me.” (Or more

literally your singularity from me i.e. the center part of his being i.e. the

center of the black hole.)

·

The Torah

applies on many different levels, the microscopic and macroscopic, e.g., the

interactions between subatomic particles is described in the

parashah

of

forbidden sexual relationships, e.g., the interaction of an electron and an

anti-electron is described by the law on the prohibition of sex between a

brother and sister. The Torah also applies to the physics of stars and higher

spiritual planes. On the human level also there are many levels of application.

People can keep the Shabbat on a physical level but sill desecrate it on a

spiritual level and vise versa.

·

The

reason Rabbi Nachman says “There is nothing besides Him” is literal in the

Torah the subject of the verb is understood to be ‘the doer of the verb”

without its being written. So the subject of the verb exists is 'anything that

does it', and here the verse is saying there is nothing which does this verb

except God.

·

After Eliezer

saw that Rivka had fulfilled his conditions why wasn't he convinced that she

was the right one? He asked give me water and she agreed and then she said and

I will give water to all your camels too. And thus she did. Why wasn't that

enough “why does it say after that the man was astounded at her, being quiet to

know if God had given  him success or not? The answer is the next verse, “When

the camels finished drinking then he took the jewelry etc.” For you can give a

camel to drink and it can finish it and you have to give it more. Eliezer

wanted to see if she would do more than just do what she said she would do. He

wanted to see if she would

COMPLETE

what she said she would do. Only

then could he know that she was worthy to be Issac's wife.

·

“And

Moses called to Betzalel and  to Eliav and to every person wise of heart that

God put wisdom in his heart, all that decided to come close to the work to do

it.” Exodus 36:2. It is clear that just by the fact that they wanted to do

God's work, God gave them the wisdom necessary to do it. Wisdom isn't necessary

to learn, only the desire to do the work and to actually do it. The wisdom God

will add later.

·

The idea

of the Strange Loop exists in the Torah, e.g., “Remember what Amalek did to

you.” Now, if the Torah hadn't commanded us to forget Amalek, no one would

remember him. But, since the Torah commands us to be sure not to forget to

forget Amalek,

now

we all remember him.

Just like

the double negatives in genetics. Even Hegel noticed the double negatives.

These things indicate a deeper level. Just like for number theory to be correct

we need to postulate super-numbers. [This indicates the need for the Oral Law. However,

since the 13 principles, by which the Torah is explained, teaches that such

contradictions need to be explained by a third verse which is on the level of

the written law, so I am not so sure about this last point unless we go like

the Rambam who considers the things derived by the Thirteen Principles to be

Rabbinical. Perhaps the Torah itself hints to its own inner level?]

·

The

Strange Loops exist through the Torah. We do all the mitzvot in gratitude that

God brought us out of slavery, but we are allowed to own slaves. Yaakov lied

saying I am Esau, but we attribute the trait of Truth to him, “Give truth to

Yakov...” [Unless that means give him truth because he doesn't have any]. But

if the spies to Israel said the truth we get on their backs. We borrow the

money of the Egyptians, but we don't give it back because we earned it, but we

don't pay back our slaves. Abraham was ready to do a very cruel deed, but we

attribute the trait of kindness to him. “Honor your father and mother”, yet

Moses praised the tribe of Levi for killing their parents when they were guilty

of idolatry. “Who says to his father and mother I have not seen them...”

The truth

is, all these things point to a deeper level, as strange loops do. [But the

simple explanation is that the patriarchs and the Jewish people were and are

flawed, but God chose them anyway.

·

Every

openly evil deed done by anyone Jewish in the Bible we have an excuse — e.g.,

for “The Holy spirit told him so.” Every good deed by a non-Jew we attribute it

to evil motives. The reason is that the Talmud was written at a period of

extreme animosity towards the Gentiles. Now even though it is inspired by God

it still comes through the vessels of the souls of the people then.

·

Abraham

said, “the gods tricked me”. Apparently, he believed there are other gods but

that they are under the rule of the One Creator. This isn't a new point. The

Sages obviously believed the angels or princes appointed over each nation is

its god, and Michael is the archangel of Israel, as it says in Daniel.

·

When Rashi

says ‘Tikun Sofrim’ it means simply that the verse was changed later by the

sofrim. Apparently, this happened also in the verse “he set the boundaries of

the nations according to the number of the children of Israel.” The Dead Sea Scrolls

have the number of the children of God. This isn't

apikorsus

to believe —

unless you want to say too that Rashi was an

apikorus

. To tell the truth,

modern orthodoxy would consider the Rambam also to be an apikorus.

·

The oral

law are the meanings that the written text triggers, and the written law is the

open and hidden meanings that are contained in the text itself. In reality,

there is no way to totally understand the meaning of any verse of the torah

since that would mean understanding the implications of its connections to

every person until the end of time. That is why there is no infallible method

for telling true from false statements in number theory —because statements

imply meaning, which has infinite levels. [GEB, p. 561, 582]

·

The

dichotomy between Relativity and quantum mechanics is possibly related to the

Strange Loops in Mathematical logic, i.e.,  relativity is from the sephirot of

Yosher, and quantum reality is from Igulim.

·

There is

a special type of holiness the Patriarchs handed down one to the other. This is

the subject of the blessings. This is different than a normal blessing one

gives to another but a special type of holiness in quality and quantity. This

came to Joseph as Rashi explains on the verses of the blessing Yakob gave to

him. Rashi says there “The blessing of the Patriarchs”. Thus the Jewish people

are only the physical descendants of the Patriarchs. To find the people that

received the blessing of Joseph one would have to know where his two tribes

went to, for the Jewish people today are Judah and Benjamin. It seems there is

a different spiritual Israel, different than the Jewish people that received

this blessing.

[28]

Each

sentence of the Torah has a noun which is the root of matter and a verb which

is the root of energy.So the four worlds corresponding to the four Hebrew words

for doing or making refer to the four forces.The strong force- physicality.The

weak force-formation. The electromagnetic force-creation.Gravitation Emanation.

