
·

The Torah

applies on many different levels, the microscopic and macroscopic, e.g., the

interactions between subatomic particles is described in the

parashah

of

forbidden sexual relationships, e.g., the interaction of an electron and an

anti-electron is described by the law on the prohibition of sex between a

brother and sister. The Torah also applies to the physics of stars and higher

spiritual planes. On the human level also there are many levels of application.

People can keep the Shabbat on a physical level but sill desecrate it on a

spiritual level and vise versa.

·

The

reason Rabbi Nachman says “There is nothing besides Him” is literal in the

Torah the subject of the verb is understood to be ‘the doer of the verb”

without its being written. So the subject of the verb exists is 'anything that

does it', and here the verse is saying there is nothing which does this verb

except God.

·

After Eliezer

saw that Rivka had fulfilled his conditions why wasn't he convinced that she

was the right one? He asked give me water and she agreed and then she said and

I will give water to all your camels too. And thus she did. Why wasn't that

enough “why does it say after that the man was astounded at her, being quiet to

know if God had given  him success or not? The answer is the next verse, “When

the camels finished drinking then he took the jewelry etc.” For you can give a

camel to drink and it can finish it and you have to give it more. Eliezer

wanted to see if she would do more than just do what she said she would do. He

wanted to see if she would

COMPLETE

what she said she would do. Only

then could he know that she was worthy to be Issac's wife.

·

“And

Moses called to Betzalel and  to Eliav and to every person wise of heart that

God put wisdom in his heart, all that decided to come close to the work to do

it.” Exodus 36:2. It is clear that just by the fact that they wanted to do

God's work, God gave them the wisdom necessary to do it. Wisdom isn't necessary

to learn, only the desire to do the work and to actually do it. The wisdom God

will add later.

·

The idea

of the Strange Loop exists in the Torah, e.g., “Remember what Amalek did to

you.” Now, if the Torah hadn't commanded us to forget Amalek, no one would

remember him. But, since the Torah commands us to be sure not to forget to
