
universe can be traced back through successively shorter cycles to some initial

tiny seed, a baby universe produced by a quantum fluctuation out of nothing at

all”.

-- Unveiling The Edge of Time,

by John Gribbin

“And God said let there be light, and there was light.” -

-

Genesis 1:3

·28

DpxDt³(h/4p)

is also a quality which is impossible to know the exact amount. This may relate

to uncertainty of momentum or time. For the uncertainty of momentum is

inversely proportional to p.

·

The speed

of light is the same for all observers because it is the speed of time through

the 5th dimension.

·

The idea

of the four elements of air, fire, water and ground is quite literal (but also

simply means the states of energy, gas, liquid and solid. The Kabbalah, when it

took over this idea from the Greeks, meant it in a different way than the

Greeks, i.e., that the four letters of the Ineffable Name permeate every aspect

of creation. So, on every level there is a division into four parts which are

really 8 because the Kabbalah puts together the Ineffable Name with Adonai e.g.,

each of the four represent a state, but also represent the actual substances

that make up fire or water. I would like to suggest my own four primordial

substances that existed in the early universe quarks, leptons, photons, gluons

(ground, water, fire, air).

·

I would

like to suggest that String Theory has its roots in the four flows coming from Adam

Kadmon: notes, vowels, crowns and letters, -- e.g., the Crown of Wisdom are

musical notes, and the nine lower

sephirot

are the vowels, and the Crown

of Understanding are the crowns of the letters, and the lower nine sephirot are

letters.

Now all

of these four levels are in the form of letters, but the letters of the Crown

of Wisdom are in the form of musical notes. The crowns themselves are letters

in the form of the circular notes e.g.

[IMAGE: image047.gif]

i.e.,

closed strings -- the open strings are vowels and crowns. This works amazingly

well, for it is a great principle in kabbalah that each particle in the
