Chapter 2   - Roots of Science

Introduction

Science

and Kabbalah are two distinct fields with apparently no relationship between

them. Yet Einstein wrote that the object of all science is to coordinate our

experiences and to bring them into a logical system. He also said that there is

no real qualitative difference between those sense perceptions which are common

to different individuals (and in that sense impersonal) and those which are

experienced by only one person. Those which are common to different people are

really no more factual than those which are experienced by one. Kabbalah

involves personal experience which however can be verified by its effects in

the inter-personal world.

It's my

hope that this section will coordinate experience (spiritual and scientific)

and bring them all into a logical system.

It is

also my hope to show how Science and Kabbalah can illuminate the other as long

as each keeps its respective parameters in mind. When either forgets it's

boundaries it usually does notoriously badly. Physics describes reality based

on models taken from every day experience and these models work. I am trying

here to find what the true inner model of Physics is by using the Kabbalah,

i.e., I'm trying to find the spiritual realities upon which the physical world

is based.

·

The two

kinds of circular and straight sephirot are the root of the uncertainty of the

continuum hypothesis (that Cantor hypothesized that there is no set that has a

cardinal number between

a

0

(the cardinal number of elements of the set of all natural

numbers) and “c” (the cardinal number of the set of all rational and irrational

numbers) where each kind of valid math can be built on either opposite

assumption.

·

The

circular sephirot have a base of p. In turn the root of that is the contradiction

of the emptiness of the empty space though it must have the presence of God in

it. (The emptiness is Godliness, but we can't find God there.)

·

Perhaps

gravity has a counterpart like the electric force with the magnetic force --

and that something could cause a red shift in gravity waves like gravity causes

for light waves. [In General Relativity, gravity is conservative, like the

electric force. I wonder about a possible counterpart like the magnetic force. At

any rate, since everything in creation seems to contain Strange Loops, I would
