
forget Amalek,

now

we all remember him.

Just like

the double negatives in genetics. Even Hegel noticed the double negatives.

These things indicate a deeper level. Just like for number theory to be correct

we need to postulate super-numbers. [This indicates the need for the Oral Law. However,

since the 13 principles, by which the Torah is explained, teaches that such

contradictions need to be explained by a third verse which is on the level of

the written law, so I am not so sure about this last point unless we go like

the Rambam who considers the things derived by the Thirteen Principles to be

Rabbinical. Perhaps the Torah itself hints to its own inner level?]

·

The

Strange Loops exist through the Torah. We do all the mitzvot in gratitude that

God brought us out of slavery, but we are allowed to own slaves. Yaakov lied

saying I am Esau, but we attribute the trait of Truth to him, “Give truth to

Yakov...” [Unless that means give him truth because he doesn't have any]. But

if the spies to Israel said the truth we get on their backs. We borrow the

money of the Egyptians, but we don't give it back because we earned it, but we

don't pay back our slaves. Abraham was ready to do a very cruel deed, but we

attribute the trait of kindness to him. “Honor your father and mother”, yet

Moses praised the tribe of Levi for killing their parents when they were guilty

of idolatry. “Who says to his father and mother I have not seen them...”

The truth

is, all these things point to a deeper level, as strange loops do. [But the

simple explanation is that the patriarchs and the Jewish people were and are

flawed, but God chose them anyway.

·

Every

openly evil deed done by anyone Jewish in the Bible we have an excuse — e.g.,

for “The Holy spirit told him so.” Every good deed by a non-Jew we attribute it

to evil motives. The reason is that the Talmud was written at a period of

extreme animosity towards the Gentiles. Now even though it is inspired by God

it still comes through the vessels of the souls of the people then.

·

Abraham

said, “the gods tricked me”. Apparently, he believed there are other gods but

that they are under the rule of the One Creator. This isn't a new point. The

Sages obviously believed the angels or princes appointed over each nation is

its god, and Michael is the archangel of Israel, as it says in Daniel.

·

When Rashi

says ‘Tikun Sofrim’ it means simply that the verse was changed later by the

sofrim. Apparently, this happened also in the verse “he set the boundaries of

the nations according to the number of the children of Israel.” The Dead Sea Scrolls
