Chapter 3 - Shabbat

·

The

reason the halacha is like Rabbenu Tam that the night starts 90 or 72 minutes

after sunset is that the Shulchan Aruch and the Magen Abraham, the majority of

the Rishonim (1st authorities), Rav Sadia Gaon, and the Arizal all hold like

him. (The Radvaz even shows that the Rambam holds like Rabbanu Tam) (72 minutes

is if a mil is 18 minutes. 96 is if it is 24 like the Rambam says in the Perush

HaMishna. The Chasam Sofer says it is 22.5 so that it comes out 90 minutes. The

Maharam Shik brings many authorities like son of the Rambam that say the world

is round and he assumes that disproves Rabbenu Tam, yet we find Tosphot

Rid in

Shabbat says openly that the world is round and

yet explains Rabbenu Tam accordingly.

Besides

this also there is the fact that medium stars don't come out until about 60 min

after sunset, and stars continue to come out until about 3 hours after sunset.

Now to know the medium sized number of a set of numbers, you have to see all

the numbers first. Similarly, to know what a medium star looks like you have to

see all the stars first (that the human eye can see). Then after you have seen

all the stars at midnight in a place where the small stars aren't obstructed by

city lights, like in a desert or the mountains, and you have judged 3 medium

stars, then the second night you will find that they don't become visible until

about 60 minutes after sunset.

This is

according to the majority of the authorities, but I don't understand why the

Gemara in Shabbat and the Gemara in Pesachim can't just be disagreeing, and

both be talking about the first

shkia

(sunset). Even though most

authorities don't go for this kind of thinking, but the Rambam does. He doesn't

believe the entire Shas has to be self-consistent [Miguel de Unamuno said, “If

a person never contradict's himself, it must be that he says nothing.” Thus, it

would seem to me a simple explanation that the Rambam in Hilchot Shabbat is not

like Rabbanu Tam even though the Radvaz says it is. So, I tend to think it is

better to be strict and accept Shabbat at the first sunset but not do work on

Saturday night until 90 minutes.

·

Carrying

in a public domain is forbidden.  But one can depend on Rashi and the  Tosphot

that a public domain is only one in which 600,000 people travel through daily.

(In a case of need one can depend on a lenient opinion even in a biblical

matter.) [However, the Rambam doesn't hold this way, so it is preferable not to

carry even in the place where there is an

eruv

which is worthless if it

actually is a public domain. To the Rambam in fact even a lonely dirt road

between two cities is a public domain Biblically and carrying there four steps

is against the Torah. However, I do believe that one can depend on Rashi and

Tosphot whose opinion is brought in the Shulchan Aruch as a “Some say”.

Apparently, Rabbi Yoseph Karo himself didn't want to make a final decision in

this case. Perhaps because the Rambam holds you don't need 600,000 and the Rosh

holds you do, and the Rif isn't clear. So, the Beit Yoseph couldn't use his

normal method of using the majority of these three authorities. But if we

continue his method of going in that case to the other authorities then the

majority

do hold

by Rashi.

·

Playing a

musical instrument on the Sabbath is permitted. People in general are not

experts in making musical instruments, so the reason for the rabbinical decree

doesn't apply (i.e., that people might fix the instrument if it breaks.). This

is in accordance with the opinion of the Rashbam and Raavad that once the

reason for a decree doesn't exist the decree is automatically null and void.

And even to the Rambam one can apply this (as it says in the book

Or Zarua

Le Tzadik

of Rabbi Zadok HaCohen in Chapter 2). The reason he gives there

is the same as the Rosh in the beginning of

Avoda Zarah

. The amazing

thing is that the Rosh assumes a law made by the Sanhedrin only applies in the

time and place it was meant for.

·

It is

allowed to use electricity on Shabbat. It is not fire. Nor is it Tikun Mana.

(Each time you turn on your TV, you are not making a new TV set). However, one

is not allowed to do any type of labor with it — like cooking.

·

One is

allowed to write on the computer on the Shabbat since the letters are not

Ashurit

(Hebrew script) and the letters are not stored in the viable form. So, this is

a case of two rabbinical decrees — one against the other — and therefore

allowed. Drawing on the computer on Shabbat however is forbidden.

[The

Shulchan Aruch says that to purchase land in Israel, one is allowed write up

the documents on the Shabbat — since he is writing in a different language than

Hebrew. However, the fact that it is a different language wouldn't be enough

since that is forbidden rabbinically. However, the rabbinical prohibition is permitted

in this case.]

·

Paper

money is allowed to be handled on the Sabbath since it isn't in the category of

what the Gemarah calls “maot” [coins] it is rather in the category of Business

documents which one isn't allowed to read. (This is like the Rambam. However

many other Rishonim hold business documents are muktzah.) The only permission

to handle coins that I know of is Rashi on page 143a of Shabbat that the bones

there are “hard and not fit for a dog” and rav Nachman in the gemara says that

is the opinion of Beit Hillel. [There is the other Stam Mishna on page 142b,

which obviously holds coins are muktza — so we have

stam

against

stam

.]

·

Brushing

teeth on the Shabbat with toothpaste is permitted. The melachah where some

people get the idea that it is prohibited from is the melachah of smoothing

dirt or some substance over a surface like a stove to cover it up which has

nothing to do with brushing teeth.

·

Things

that are forbidden on the Shabbat sewing cooking [heating food to over 160

Fahrenheit] carrying anything from an area surrounded by three walls to a

public domain where 600,000 people pass daily. To the Rambam a public domain is

any road that is 16 amot [32 feet] wide even if that many people don't pass

daily. Writing in Hebrew [I imagine the old Ivri script is also forbidden since

the Gemara says the Torah was given in that script. The Torah was given in Ivri

script but in the Hebrew language. Eventually the Jewish people decided on the

Ashuri script. Some Medieval authorities think that this Gemara isn't literal

and want to say that the Torah was given in Ashuri script, but it seems to me

that it is about as clear as you can get.]. Carrying anything in a public

domain four amot [8 feet] [Clothing and jewelry that is worn is permitted.

Separating the chaff from the wheat.

·

It is

forbidden to go to the mikvah on Friday  afternoon since that is the time the klipot

gather to try to come into holiness and the place they do this is the

mikvah.For this reason it is forbidden to pray in a synagogue which is the

place of the klipot in general since the klipot try to find the places of

holiness and to enter people that go there.

