Chapter 3 - THE U.S.A.

“Nothing in America is so painful as the lack of joy. Pleasure is

frantic and bacchanalian, a matter of momentary oblivion not of delighted

self-expression. Men sit throughout the day glued to their desks, amid

typewriters and telephone, serious, important and worthless.”

-Bertrand Russell

·

America

is becoming increasingly totalitarian. This could spell the beginning of the

end for it. I do believe however that there still is some hope for America.

There needs to be a balance between secular and religious forces, because if

either becomes the sole force we would have tyranny. And the worst thing would

be if they worked together. The best thing is if they both remain sworn enemies

of each other and hopefully that will leave an “empty space” in between for the

decent people. We need to safeguard the things modern democracy and capitalism

have accomplished in freedom for the individual. But we need to continue this

process by an integration with the Bible.

The

reason America is becoming a police state is that freedom is being confused

with the idea of protection of the rights of individuals. In a capitalistic

free-flowing society, there are basic patterns of flow like in an ant colony

where the free flow reinforces the caste system. When the government is

perceived as the way for one group of people to get the money of another group,

which they assume is their right, since they are the majority, the state

becomes a police state. All people are born equal — this means born with the

right to enjoy the fruits of their labor or intelligence. But it doesn't mean

born with the right to someone else's money. But today that is exactly what

Americans thinks. Therefore, America is doomed unless it goes back to its

Christian roots. Yet the decay of a nation and its values can be the rebirth of

something greater.

Perhaps

it is the idea of a religious democracy, in place of the secular democracy.

That is a democracy based on the majority rule, but with the Bible as its

constitution [AS in fact John Locke envisioned in the first place.]

Actually,

the problem of America is, as Hegel saw, that when any society gets to the

point of self-reflection it is at its peak and then must start the decay. Hegel

didn't know the reason for this, but I think it is from Gödel theorem. The

venerability of TNT is that it is capable of expressing statements about

itself.

Once

America saw the contradiction of the Bible and the principles of democracy it

felt it had to go in one direction or the other. But they didn't know that the

whole strength of America depended on that contradiction, not on one or the

other or both but the contradiction itself. [Perhaps this is the reason Rome

fell, they became totally religious, instead of the necessary combination of

religion and secularism together.]

·

The power

of America is from the individual. In the past, democracies didn't work for

there

first had to be the correction of the vessels by

monarchies combining the sparks and combining the vessels of

tikun

. Then

the light of

chaos

could be drawn into the vessels of

correction

in England and America. (The idea here is that the vessels of

chaos

weren't combined together and therefore they broke when the light hit them,

thus democracies whose strength is from the individual all broke and were short

lived throughout history. In the USA there used to be a large degree of

individual freedom but a strong central government which provided the political

stability needed to keep it together.

·

In

America, adults can live any type of depraved life style they want but the

youth are expected to live pure and holy and innocent life styles. The reason

for this is that the sexual hormones are activated exactly on the 18

th

birthday. If the adults expect the youth to act righteously then they should do

so themselves, and if they refuse because “you can't legislate morality” then

let them, not legislate morality to the youth.

·

The world

has to oscillate between two poles, with the Jews in the middle:

●

Ancient Greece and Rome.

●

Rome and Byzantium

●

Christianity and Islam

●

England and France.

●

Europe and the East.

●

The USA and Russia.

The

oscillation between the two poles is a good thing. This creates a freedom in

the middle for people to grow and develop, but problems arise when each side

assumes it’s a two person zero sum game, i.e., what one side wins the other

side loses. In that case the conflict creates a situation where both sides

lose. By cooperation both would increase the market for their ideas.

·

There are

two tendencies now:

One, is

the expansion of the political entity from state into a global state. But since

that spreads the power thinly there is an opposite tendency to contract the

political entity into ethnic religious groups and global corporations [economic

states]. The conflict between these two forces causes a pattern of chaos to

emerge. The second pattern is back to the Middle Ages when there was not

“state”, just loyalty to the Catholic church or to Islam in a general (but very

real way) and to one's particular landowner or feudal lord or prince. In the

U.S.A. the courts no longer judge by the constitution, but by who has more

money to buy a better lawyer - and juries now always decide along ethnic lines.

The

second way is because of peoples tremendous fear of freedom and the intense

emotional isolationism of today. Therefore, ideas of globalization which are

simply another form of colonialism can't apply in countries where the center of

mass is the ethnic principle like the countries of South East Asia. It is

likely that those countries will eventually confiscate the assets of American

and European investors.

·

Once the

light of enlightenment [Royalty] was in Israel, then it passed to ancient

Greece, then to Rome, and then to Europe. The light shone from Europe to

America. Now a civilized a nation is judged by how “Westernized” it is. That

light will return to Israel, but the light of foundation is specifically for

America.

·

To a

large degree America and Israel seem to me to be very religious countries. For

where there is freedom of religion, whatever religion or belief people have

will be real, while where it is forced, it won't be real. A little bit of the

real thing is much better than a lot of the wrong thing.

·

Freud

suggested that the unconscious was the real cause of behavior, and that moral

values were projections of the unconscious. Therefore, the idea of absolute

values, responsibility and rationality was a myth. This thinking still shapes

the minds of psychoanalysts and psychotherapists, and many have become

influenced by that point of view. This is I believe the reason for the decay of

values even among the pseudo religious that keep the rituals of each religion,

but in terms of real morality are quite lacking.

·

We have

come to the time Bertrand Russell feared, “When science has become venerable,

it will control our lives as much as religion has ever. I foresee the time when

all who care for the freedom of the human spirit will have to rebel against a

scientific tyranny.” - Marriage And Morals

,

Bertrand Russell.

However, this is to be taken in

context. There are many standard procedures in medicine and valid approaches in

psychology. These should be used.

The same

Rabbi Nachman who despised doctors, when the first vaccine came out, said “you

have to take your children even in the middle of the winter to the village

where they are giving the vaccine.” – The appendix of the Book of 13 stories.

The

general practice of Breslovers is to get three doctors opinions before any

major procedure. The criticism here is on the character of psychologists and

therefore automatically on their effectiveness.

·

John

Adams wrote in his diary on his trip to New York to convince them to sign the

Constitution, “I can't understand why everybody in New York is so nasty.” (This

was when it's total population was only about 10,000). There is an

extraordinary spirit of greed and anger in New York. It isn't reactionary

anger, but anger which is ever present and only waiting for an opportunity to

surface.

·

The

freedom of the media to enter a court room is the only thing to check the power

of judges in the USA. [In Hegel's ideal state also the court proceedings had to

be public.]

·

I find it

fascinating that everyone is worried about the moral issue of cloning. Already

it is banned in Europe and America (even before it exists). Angry letters into

the newspapers about scientists involved in cloning. Yet not a peep about

abortion. I can only conclude that, in the western mentality, to destroy life

is moral but to create life is immoral.

No wonder

this last century has been so bloody. In the 1960's the goal in life of the

majority of youth was to find a true life philosophy. Today it's to have money.

We are digressing backwards. War can't be too far away. The dislike today of

the scientists means that the connection between rulership and wisdom is gone

and therefore rulership has fallen into stupidity and when that happens things

tend to decay into chaos rapidly.

·

Some of

the other things which are odd about America is the attitude towards sex.

Homosexuality is legal but wholesome sex between people already biologically

ready and in need of it is not (i.e., teenagers). But, then again, there is no

concept of wholesome sex in America. If a man has sex with many women, it's

legal as long as they aren't his wives; killing life by contraceptives and

abortion and masturbation is considered OK but creating life by sex between

teenagers who are biologically ready and have much more intense feelings of

love than adults, is not. Creating life by cloning is not. Creating more life

by granting men the right to many wives is not. Biblical values would do this

and the world quite a bit of good.

·

The

transfer of power in Russia from financial establishment to the intellectuals

led to it being transferred to the military under communist rule. In America,

the transfer of power from the political financial establishment to the

intellectual led to the destruction of the American family. One reason would be

that the intellectuals are usually from the wisdom of the evil-side, since they

don't in general accept faith as their guide. Wisdom, if not connected with God

falls into the evil-

side

. Also, another reason is that logic without the

heart is a poor guide, and in those cases logic, not the heart was the guide.

Another way of looking at this is that the sepherah of Royalty is the same as

that for Faith {Malchut}, so Rulership is dependent on faith. Wisdom is good

when it flows in Faith, but by itself it gives its flow to the wrong side.

·

Psychology

today is essentially a manifestation of peoples fear of freedom. Therapy is

dependency on a magic helper — the therapist. The purpose of Psychology is to

convince people that they need a therapist and then to use that need as a proof

that they are accomplishing something. Psychology is the escape from

responsibility.

·

Super

people are most creative yet the psycho-therapists and psycho-analysts destroy

them by convincing them that there is something wrong with them and forcing

them thus to conform. To a psycho-therapist, the worst sin is not fitting in,

not being adjusted. With this as the working principle of our society of which

we have given the pseudo-science of psychotherapy legal authority, we have

destroyed all our potential geniuses. God forbid, if a social worker or a

psycho-therapist had ever gotten their hands on a Beethoven or a Mozart — both

with “abusive” fathers.

The only

reason they may have anything to show for their false science is the fact that

everybody needs someone to talk to that won't be judgmental, will listen

without interrupting, and just render impartial advice as best they can, [that

is the reason there were Catholic priests]. The Devil couldn't destroy America

all by himself since he is only one angel, so he sent the

psycho therapists

to do his work for him.

·

There

can't be spiritual growth in New York, since the city is the root of the broken

vessels which don't connect with each other. Growth can only be in a friendly

atmosphere. You can be a saint in NY, but I don't think you can grow.

·

The

political chaos that ensues at the breakup of the family is what destroyed the

Roman Empire, Renaissance, Italy and, unless we wake up, America. The reason

for the breakup of the family is the erosion of the place of the father. What

could save it is to nullify the idea of separation church and state — which in

fact is not in the constitution. All it says is there shall not be a national

church. OK, then let each state choose its own State Church.

The only

countries in Europe that stood up to the Nazis were the ones that never had

division of church and state, as has been noted by others. In fact, the Jews

had a relatively good time in Germany for 2000 years until they threw out Jesus

in the 1800's. Einstein noted that only the churches in Germany stood up to the

Nazis, not the intellectuals, or the universities. [I assume he meant the

Lutheran churches, which were the ones that spoke against the Nazis as far as I

know.]

It has

been noted that the Pope of that time chose diplomacy over courage, but it has

been shown that he saved the Jews of Italy by choosing carefully with which

issues to confront the Nazis. Edith Stein was killed because the nuns of her

Catholic Church did in fact stand up to the Nazis. The run of the mill Lutheran

pastors talked against the Nazis then were threatened to be gassed and then

some kept talking until they were gassed, and others shut up. I wonder today

when millions of people were being wiped out in Rwanda, how many of you shed a

tear, or even barely noticed?

·

The

effect of the scientist on society isn't by what he says but by what people

think he says.

·

People

have always been killing each other for all types of reasons. It used to be

territory or plunder. Then for religion. Then for nationalism. Then for the

struggle between communism and democracy. If it won't be for one reason it will

be for another until the final redemption of mankind comes.

Anything

that matters a lot to people they will kill for. The only time people will stop

killing each other is when nothing makes any difference to them anymore.

Now, at

some point in our history religion mattered. However, religion hasn't mattered

to people for a long time. Now that secularism has lost it potency, religion

will again become the reason people do good or evil.
